Access to Knowledge movement - Wikipedia Access to Knowledge movement From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search The Access to Knowledge (A2K) movement is a loose collection of civil society groups, governments, and individuals converging on the idea that access to knowledge should be linked to fundamental principles of justice, freedom, and economic development. Contents 1 History 1.1 Human rights debate 2 Supporters 2.1 Knowledge Ecology International 2.2 Consumers International 3 See also 4 References 5 Further reading 6 External links 6.1 Global 6.2 Local History[edit] The Berlin Declaration on Open Access to Knowledge in the Sciences and Humanities from 2003 is a major declaration reflecting the goals of the movement pertaining to academic publishing. In October 2004, the Geneva declaration on the future of the World Intellectual Property Organization emerged from a call from Brazil and Argentina for a development agenda for the World Intellectual Property Organization, and was supported by hundreds organizations.[1] Supporters included the Free Software Foundation, with a statement Towards a "World Intellectual Wealth Organisation": Supporting the Geneva Declaration.[2] One of the proposals of the declaration was to a «call for a Treaty on Access to Knowledge and Technology. The Standing Committee on Patents and the Standing Committee on Copyright and Related Rights should solicit views from member countries and the public on elements of such a treaty».[3] A shared discussion platform on A2K issues is the mailing list of that name, which was initiated around discussion of the Geneva declaration.[4] A draft "A2K treaty" was later produced.[5] The proposed treaty is intended to ease the transfer of knowledge to developing nations, and to secure the viability of open innovation systems all over the world.[6] Human rights debate[edit] Access to knowledge and science is protected by Article 27 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The article balances the right of access with a right to protection of moral and material interests: Article 27 Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits. Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic production of which he is the author. A2K academics argue that “material interests” are not simply equivalent to current intellectual property provisions, not least because these rights are saleable and transferable, and therefore not “inalienable”. The right to access is ultimately the more important part of the right. Current levels of IP protection seem out of balance with Article 27, according to A2K theorists: ... in a very real sense, rights delayed are rights denied. Had access to oral rehydration therapy and second-generation vaccine technologies been delayed for twenty years ... three million children would have died. Even for less life- and-death technologies, a twenty-year delay works an immense limitation on enjoyment of the right. For cultural works, the situation is even worse; protection lasts longer than a human lifetime.[7] Supporters[edit] Knowledge Ecology International[edit] CP Tech (now Knowledge Ecology International) say: "the A2K (Access to Knowledge) movement takes concerns with copyright law and other regulations that affect knowledge and places them within an understandable social need and policy platform: access to knowledge goods."[8] Consumers International[edit] Many different groups refer to the A2K movement. Consumers International is particularly prominent, running a dedicated domain,[9] and defines the movement as: the umbrella term for a movement that aims to create more equitable public access to the products of human culture and learning. The ultimate objective of the movement is to create a world in which educational and cultural works are accessible to all, and in which consumers and creators alike participate in a vibrant ecosystem of innovation and creativity. These goals are of interest to a broad coalition of consumer groups, NGOs, activists, Internet users and others. For many of them, coming to grips with the issues involved in the A2K movement can be daunting. These issues, including copyright and patent law reform, open content licensing, and communications rights, often involve legal and technological concepts that even specialists find difficult. See also[edit] Access2Research Academic journal publishing reform Free culture movement Open access Open knowledge Right to education Timeline of the open access movement References[edit] ^ "Geneva Declaration on the Future of WIPO". ^ "FSFE - Towards a "World Intellectual Wealth Organisation"". ^ "Geneva Declaration on the Future of the World Intellectual Property Organization". ^ "A2k Info Page". lists.keionline.org. Retrieved 2019-07-24. ^ "Treaty on Access to Knowledge" (PDF). Cptech.org. Retrieved 2013-09-02. ^ "Experts Debate Access To Knowledge | Intellectual Property Watch". Ip-watch.org. 2005-02-15. Retrieved 2013-09-02. ^ Shaver, Lea (2010). "The Right to Science and Culture". Wisconsin Law Review. 1: 121–184. doi:10.2139/ssrn.1354788. SSRN 1354788. ^ "Access to Knowledge". Cptech.org. Retrieved 2013-09-02. ^ "A global advocacy network for consumers in the digital age". A2Knetwork.org. Archived from the original on 2013-10-30. Retrieved 2013-09-02. Further reading[edit] Draft Text of the A2K Treaty New, William. "Experts Debate Access to Knowledge", IP Watch, Feb. 15, 2005. Accessed April 23, 2007. "Convergence of movements to fight IPRs on information", Seedling, 2005. Accessed April 23, 2007. The A2K term is also used in academic discourse and literature. Bloomsbury Academic have produced a series on issues in Brazil,[1] Egypt[2] and India;[3] while UCT Press have published an overview of the issues in Africa.[4] An academic overview of the issues can be found in 'Access to Knowledge in the Age of Intellectual Property', published in 2010.[5] External links[edit] Global[edit] Consumer Project on Technology's A2K resources Consumers International's A2Knetwork.org Yale Information Society Project A2K Program Local[edit] A2K Brazil A2K Derechos Digitales (Chile) (Spanish) Bibliotheca Alexandrina's A2K Portal (English/Arabic) Access to knowledge in Egypt v t e Open access History Timeline Concepts Gratis versus libre Subscription business model Paywall Copyright transfer agreement Academic journal Scientific journal Manuscript Preprint Postprint Article processing charge Predatory publishing Statements Budapest Open Access Initiative Berlin Declaration Bethesda Statement Durham Statement NIH Public Access Policy Research Works Act Strategies Open access journal ("gold OA" ) Self-archiving ("green OA" ) Open-access policy Mandate Open access repository Hybrid open access journal Delayed open access journal Projects + organizations Creative Commons Directory of Open Access Books [ca] Directory of Open Access Journals Initiative for Open Citations Open Access Scholarly Publishers Association Open Archives Initiative Open Knowledge Open Society Foundations Plan S Public Library of Science Registry of Open Access Repositories Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition Sci-Hub Other Access to knowledge movement Access2Research By location Africa: South Africa Americas: Canada Asia: India Europe: France Germany Spain Oceania: Australia List of open-access journals List of open access projects List of repositories Public Knowledge Project The Cost of Knowledge Open content - Open data - Open education - Open government - Open hardware - Open knowledge - Open science - Open source v t e Intellectual property activism Issues Artificial scarcity Copyright infringement Copyright troll Digital rights management Gripe site Legal aspects of file sharing Mashup digital music videos Monopolies of knowledge Music piracy Orphan works Patents biological software software patent debate trolling Public domain Concepts All rights reversed Alternative compensation system Anti-copyright notice Business models for open-source software Copyleft Commercial use of copyleft works Commons-based peer production Electronic sell-through Free content Free software license Libertarian positions Open content Open-design movement Open Music Model Open patent Open-source Open-source hardware Open-source software Prize system contests Share-alike Video on demand Movements Access to Knowledge movement Anti-copyright Cultural environmentalism Free-culture movement Free software movement Organizations Pro-copyright Copyright Alliance Pro-copyleft Creative Commons Electronic Frontier Foundation Free Software Foundation Open Rights Group Organization for Transformative Works The Pirate Bay Piratbyrån Pirate Party Public Knowledge Sci-Hub Students for Free Culture People Cory Doctorow Alexandra Elbakyan Rick Falkvinge Lawrence Lessig Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Documentaries Steal This Film (2006, 2007) Good Copy Bad Copy (2007) RiP!: A Remix Manifesto (2008) TPB AFK: The Pirate Bay Away From Keyboard (2013) The Internet's Own Boy (2014) ^ Ronaldo Lemos; Pedro Nicoletti Mizukami; Ronaldo Lemos; Bruno Magrani; Carlos Affonso Pereira de Souza (2010), Access to Knowledge in Brazil, Bloomsbury Academic, OL 25370105M ^ Lea Shaver; Nagla Rizk (2010), Access to Knowledge in Egypt, Bloomsbury Academic, ISBN 978-1-84966-008-2, OL 25370145M, 1849660085 ^ Lea Shaver; Ramesh Subramanian (2011), Access to Knowledge in India, Bloomsbury Academic, ISBN 978-1849665261, OL 25370143M, 1849665265 ^ Armstrong, Chris Dr (2010), Access to Knowledge in Africa, UCT Press, OL 25370223M ^ Gaelle Krikorian; Amy Kapczynski (2010), Access to Knowledge in the Age of Intellectual Property, MIT Press, OL 25370177M Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Access_to_Knowledge_movement&oldid=930319855" Categories: Politics and technology Internet-related activism Scholarly communication Intellectual property activism Intellectual property law History of social movements Open government Access to Knowledge movement Social movements Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? ????????? Català Deutsch Español ????? ??????? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 11 December 2019, at 18:03 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Moses@Charles.info
