American Library Association - Wikipedia American Library Association From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search American library association and professional society Not to be confused with (ALA) American Literature Association. ‹ The template Infobox organization is being considered for merging. › American Library Association ALA Logo Abbreviation ALA Formation October 6, 1876; 143 years ago (1876-10-06) Type Non-profit NGO Purpose "To provide leadership for the development, promotion and improvement of library and information services and the profession of librarianship in order to enhance learning and ensure access to information for all."[1] Headquarters Chicago, Illinois, U.S. Location Chicago and Washington, D.C. Region served United States Membership 60,301[2] Executive Director Mary Ghikas President Wanda Kay Brown Budget $55 million[3] Staff approx. 300 Website www.ala.org The American Library Association (ALA) is a nonprofit organization based in the United States that promotes libraries and library education internationally. It is the oldest and largest library association in the world,[4] with more than 57,000 members.[5] Contents 1 History 2 Membership 3 Governing structure 3.1 Activities 3.1.1 Divisions 3.1.2 Notable offices 3.1.3 Notable sub-organizations 3.1.4 Round Tables 3.2 Affiliates 3.3 National outreach 3.3.1 Awards 3.3.2 Conferences 3.3.3 Notable members 4 Political positions 4.1 Intellectual freedom 4.2 Privacy 4.2.1 1970s 4.2.2 1980s 4.2.3 USA PATRIOT Act 4.3 Renaming of Laura Ingalls Wilder Medal 4.4 Copyright 5 ALA-Accredited Programs in Library and Information Studies 6 See also 7 References 8 External links History[edit] Founded by Justin Winsor, Charles Ammi Cutter, Samuel S. Green, James L. Whitney, Melvil Dewey (Melvil Dui), Fred B. Perkins, Charles Evans, and Thomas W. Bicknell on October 6, 1876, during the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia and chartered[6] in 1879 in Massachusetts, its head office is now in Chicago.[7] During the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia in 1876, 103 librarians, 90 men and 13 women, responded to a call for a "Convention of Librarians" to be held October 4–6 at the Historical Society of Pennsylvania. At the end of the meeting, according to Ed Holley in his essay "ALA at 100," "the register was passed around for all to sign who wished to become charter members," making October 6, 1876, to be ALA's birthday. In attendance were 90 men and 13 women, among them Justin Winsor (Boston Public, Harvard), William Frederick Poole (Chicago Public, Newberry), Charles Ammi Cutter (Boston Athenaeum), Melvil Dewey, and Richard Rogers Bowker. Attendees came from as far west as Chicago and from England.[8] The aim of the association, in that resolution, was "to enable librarians to do their present work more easily and at less expense."[9] The association has worked throughout its history to define, extend, protect and advocate for equity of access to information.[10] Library activists in the 1930s pressured the American Library Association to be more responsive to issues put forth by young members involved with issues such as peace, segregation, library unions and intellectual freedom. In 1931, the Junior Members Round Table (JMRT) was formed to provide a voice for the younger members of the ALA, but much of what they had to say resurfaced in the social responsibility movement to come years later.[11] During this period, the first Library Bill of Rights (LBR) was drafted by Forrest Spaulding to set a standard against censorship and was adopted by the ALA in 1939. This has been recognized as the moment defining modern librarianship as a profession committed to intellectual freedom and the right to read over government dictates.[12] The ALA formed the Staff Organization's Round Table in 1936 and the Library Unions Round Table in 1940. The ALA appointed a committee to study censorship and recommend policy after the banning of The Grapes of Wrath and the implementation of the LBR. The committee reported in 1940 that intellectual freedom and professionalism were linked and recommended a permanent committee – Committee on Intellectual Freedom.[13] The ALA made revisions to strengthen the LBR in June 1948, approved the Statement on Labeling in 1951 to discourage labeling material as subversive, and adopted the Freedom to Read Statement and the Overseas Library Statement in 1953.[13] In 1961, the ALA took a stand regarding service to African Americans and others, advocating for equal library service for all. An amendment was passed to the LBR in 1961 that made clear that an individual's library use should not be denied or abridged because of race, religion, national origin, or political views. Some communities decided to close their doors rather than desegregate.[14] In 1963, the ALA commissioned a study, Access to Public Libraries, which found direct and indirect discrimination in American libraries.[15] In 1967, some librarians protested against a pro-Vietnam War speech given by General Maxwell D. Taylor at the annual ALA conference in San Francisco; the former president of Sarah Lawrence College, Harold Taylor, spoke to the Middle-Atlantic Regional Library Conference about socially responsible professionalism; and less than one year later a group of librarians proposed that the ALA schedule a new round table program discussion on the social responsibilities of librarians at its next annual conference in Kansas City. This group called themselves the Organizing Committee for the ALA Round Table on Social Responsibilities of Libraries. This group drew in many other under-represented groups in the ALA who lacked power, including the Congress for Change in 1969.[16] This formation of the committee was approved in 1969 and would change its name to the Social Responsibilities Round Table (SRRT) in 1971. After its inception, the Round Table of Social Responsibilities began to press ALA leadership to address issues such as library unions, working conditions, wages, and intellectual freedom. The Freedom to Read Foundation was created by ALA's Executive Board in 1969.[17] The Black Caucus of the ALA and the Office for Literacy and Outreach were set up in 1970.[18] At a national convention of the ALA in Dallas in 1971, Barbara Gittings staffed a kissing booth underneath the banner "Hug a Homosexual," with a "women only" side and a "men only" side.[19][20] When no one took advantage of it, she and Alma Routsong kissed in front of rolling television cameras. In describing its success, despite most of the reaction being negative, Gittings said, "We needed to get an audience. So we decided, let's show gay love live. We were offering free—mind you, free—same-sex kisses and hugs. Let me tell you, the aisles were mobbed, but no one came into the booth to get a free hug. So we hugged and kissed each other. It was shown twice on the evening news, once again in the morning. It put us on the map."[21] In June 1990, the ALA approved "Policy on Library Services to the Poor" and in 1996 the Task Force on Hunger Homelessness, and Poverty was formed to resurrect and promote the ALA guidelines on library services to the poor.[22] In 2014, Courtney Young, the president of the association, commented on the background and implications of a racist joke author Daniel Handler made as African-American writer Jacqueline Woodson received a National Book Award for Brown Girl Dreaming. "His comments were inappropriate and fell far short of the association's commitment to diversity," said Young. "Handler's remarks come at a time when the publishing world has little diversity. Works from authors and illustrators of color make up less than 8 percent of children's titles produced in 2013. The ALA hopes this regrettable incident will be used to open a dialogue on the need for diversity in the publishing industry, particularly in regards to books for young people."[23] The ALA Archives, including historical documents, non-current records, and digital records, are currently held at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign archives.[24] American Library Association conference, New Monterey Hotel, Asbury Park, New Jersey, June 25, 1919 (Library of Congress) Membership[edit] ALA membership is open to any person or organization, though most of its members are libraries or librarians. Most members live and work in the United States, with international members comprising 3.5% of total membership.[25] Governing structure[edit] Camila Alire, 2009–10 President of the ALA The ALA is governed by an elected council and an executive board. Since 2002, Keith Michael Fiels has been the ALA executive director (CEO).[26] Policies and programs are administered by various committees and round tables. One of the organization's most visible tasks is overseen by the Office for Accreditation, which formally reviews and authorizes American and Canadian academic institutions that offer degree programs in library and information science. The ALA's current President is Wanda Kay Brown (2019–2020).[27] Notable past presidents of the ALA include Theresa Elmendorf, its first female president (1911–1912),[28] Clara Stanton Jones, its first African-American president (she served as acting president from April 11 to July 22 in 1976 and then president from July 22, 1976, to 1977[29][30]), Loriene Roy, its first Native American president (2007–2008),[31][32] Michael Gorman (2005–2007), Roberta A. Stevens,[33] and Carla Hayden (2003–2004), the current Librarian of Congress [34] (See List of presidents of the American Library Association.) Activities[edit] The official purpose of the association is "to promote library service and librarianship." Members may join one or more of eleven membership divisions that deal with specialized topics such as academic, school, or public libraries, technical or reference services, and library administration. Members may also join any of seventeen round tables that are grouped around more specific interests and issues than the broader set of ALA divisions. Divisions[edit] American Association of School Librarians (AASL) Association for Library Collections and Technical Services (ALCTS) Association for Library Service to Children (ALSC) Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL) Association of Specialized and Cooperative Library Agencies (ASCLA) Library Information Technology Association (LITA) Library Leadership and Management Association (LLAMA) Public Library Association (PLA) Reference and User Services Association (RUSA) United for Libraries (United) Young Adult Library Services Association (YALSA) Notable offices[edit] Office of Intellectual Freedom (OIF) Office for Accreditation (OA) Office for Diversity, Literacy and Outreach Services Office for Information Technology Policy (OITP) ALA Editions (book publishing)[35] Notable sub-organizations[edit] Established in 1969, the Social Responsibilities Round Table currently oversees a number of task forces including the 'Feminist Task Force'; the 'Hunger, Homelessness, and Poverty Task Force (HHPTF)'; the 'International Responsibilities Task Force'; the 'Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday Task Force (MLKTF)'; 'The Rainbow Project Task Force'; and the 'Task Force on the Environment'. According to their website, the Social Responsibilities Round Table (SRRT) have worked to make the American Library Association (ALA) more democratic and progressive. Their primary focus is to promote social responsibility as a core value in librarianship and to ensure that libraries and librarians work to recognize and solve social problems in their community.[36] In 1970, the ALA founded the first lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender professional organization, called the "Task Force on Gay Liberation", now known as the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender Round Table or GLBT Round Table.[37][38] The first leader was Israel David Fishman.[39] Barbara Gittings became its coordinator in 1971. In the early 1970s, the Task Force on Gay Liberation campaigned to have books about the gay liberation movement at the Library of Congress reclassified from HQ 71–471 ("Abnormal Sexual Relations, Including Sexual Crimes"). In 1972, after receiving a letter requesting the reclassification, the Library of Congress agreed to make the shift, reclassifying those books into a newly created category, HQ 76.5 ("Homosexuality, Lesbianism—Gay Liberation Movement, Homophile Movement"). In 1971, the GLBTRT created the first award for GLBT books, the Stonewall Book Award, which celebrates books of exceptional merit that relate to LGBT issues. Patience and Sarah by Alma Routsong (pen name Isabel Miller) was the first winner. In 1992, American Libraries published a photo of the GLBTRT (then called the Gay and Lesbian Task Force) on the cover of its July/August issue, drawing both criticism and praise from the library world. Some commenters called the cover "in poor taste" and accused American Libraries of "glorifying homosexuality," while others were supportive of the move. Christine Williams, who wrote an essay about the controversy surrounding the cover, concluded that in the mid-90s, the library world was "not an especially welcoming place to gays and lesbians." In 2010, the GLBTRT announced a new committee, the Over the Rainbow Committee. This committee annually compiles a bibliography of books that show the GLBT community in a favorable light and reflects the interests of adults. The bibliographies provide guidance to libraries in the selection of positive GLBT materials. On July 23, 1976, the Committee on the Status of Women in Librarianship was established as a Council Committee of the ALA on recommendation of the Ad Hoc Committee with the same name (which had been appointed by the President of the ALA in December 1975) and of the Committee on Organization. The Committee on the Status of Women in Librarianship works to "officially represent the diversity of women's interest within ALA and to ensure that the Association considers the rights of the majority (women) in the library field; to promote and initiate the collection, analysis, dissemination, and coordination of information on the status of women in librarianship; to coordinate the activities of ALA units which consider questions of special relevance for women; to identify lags, gaps, and possible discrimination in resources and programs relating to women; in cooperation with other ALA units, to help develop and evaluate tools, guidelines, and programs designed to enhance the opportunities and the image of women in the library profession, thus raising the level of consciousness concerning women; to establish contacts with committees on women within other professional groups and to officially represent ALA concerns at interdisciplinary meetings on women's equality; and to provide Council and Membership with reports needed for establishment of policies and actions related to the status of women in librarianship; and to monitor ALA units to ensure consideration of the rights of women." [40][41] In 1979, the Committee on the Status of Women in Librarianship received the Bailey K. Howard – World Book Encyclopedia – ALA Goal Award to develop a profile of ALA personal members, known as the COSWL Study. In 1980, the Committee on the Status of Women in Librarianship was awarded the J. Morris Jones – World Book Encyclopedia – ALA Goals Award with the OLPR Advisory Committee to undertake a special project on equal pay for work of equal value.[41] Round Tables[edit] Ethnic & Multicultural Information Exchange RT (EMIERT) Exhibits Round Table (ERT) Film and Media Round (FMRT) Games and Gaming (GAMERT) Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender Round Table (GLBTRT) Government Documents (GODORT) Graphic Novel and Comics Round Table (GNCRT) Intellectual Freedom Round Table (IFRT) International Relations (IRRT) Learning RT (LearnRT) Library History (LHRT) Library Instruction Round Table (LIRT) Library Research (LRRT) Library Support Staff Interests Round Table (LSSIRT) Map and Geospatial Information (MAGIRT) New Members Round Table (NMRT) Retired Members Round Table (RMRT) Social Responsibilities Round Table (SRRT) Staff Organization (SORT) Sustainability (SustainRT) Round Table Coordinating Assembly (RTCA) Affiliates[edit] The Black Caucus of the American Library Association was formed in 1970. "The Black Caucus of the American Library Association serves as an advocate for the development, promotion, and improvement of library services and resources to the nation's African American community; and provides leadership for the recruitment and professional development of African American librarians." [42] The current president of the Black Caucus of the American Library Association is Mr. Richard E. Ashby, Jr.[43] REFORMA is the National Association to Promote Library and Information Services to Latinos and the Spanish-speaking. National outreach[edit] The ALA is affiliated with regional, state, and student chapters (SCALA) across the country. It organizes conferences, participates in library standards development, and publishes a number of books and periodicals. The ALA publishes the magazines American Libraries and Booklist. The Graphics Program creates and distributes products that promote libraries, literacy and reading.[44] Along with other organizations, it sponsors the annual Banned Books Week the last week of September. Young Adult Library Services Association (YALSA) also sponsors Teen Read Week, the third week of each October, and Teen Tech Week, the second week of each March. In addition, the ALA helps to promote diversity in the library profession with various outreach activities, including the Spectrum Scholarship program, which awards academic scholarships to minority library students each year.[45] The ALA helps to provide a total of 29 scholarships (over $300,000 annually), a list of which can be found on their website.[46] National Library Week, the second week of each April, is a national observance sponsored by the ALA since 1958.[47] Libraries across the country celebrate library resources, library champions and promote public outreach. Awards[edit] Main article: List of ALA awards The ALA annually confers numerous book and media awards, primarily through its children's and young adult divisions (others are the Dartmouth Medal, Coretta Scott King Awards, Schneider Book Awards, and Stonewall Book Award). The children's division ALSC administers the Caldecott Medal, Newbery Medal, Batchelder Award, Belpré Awards, Geisel Award, and Sibert Medal, all annual book awards;[48] the Odyssey Award for best audiobook (joint with YALSA), and the (U.S.) Carnegie Medal and for best video. There are also two ALSC lifetime recognitions, the Children's Literature Legacy Award and the Arbuthnot Lecture. The young-adult division YALSA administers the Margaret Edwards Award for significant and lasting contribution to YA literature, a lifetime recognition of one author annually, and some annual awards that recognize particular works: the Michael L. Printz Award for a YA book judged on literary merit alone, the William C. Morris Award for an author's first YA book, the new "YALSA Award for Excellence in Nonfiction for Young Adults", and the "Alex Award" list of ten adult books having special appeal for teens. Jointly with the children's division ALSC there is the Odyssey Award for excellence in audiobook production.[49] The award for YA nonfiction was inaugurated in 2012, defined by ages 12 to 18 and publication year November 2010 to October 2011. The first winner was The Notorious Benedict Arnold: A True Story of Adventure, Heroism & Treachery by Steve Sheinkin (Roaring Brook Press, November 2010) and four other finalists were named.[50][51] Beside the Alex Awards, ALA disseminates some annual lists of "Notable" and "Best" books and other media. The annual awards roster includes the John Cotton Dana Award for excellence in library public relations. In 2000, the Office for Literacy and Outreach Services (OLOS) launched the Jean E. Coleman Library Outreach Lecture in tribute to the work of the first OLOS director, Dr. Jean E. Coleman. Barbara J. Ford gave the inaugural lecture, "Libraries, Literacy, Outreach and the Digital Divide." Since 2006, the ALA has selected a class of Emerging Leaders, typically comprising about 100 librarians and library school students. This minor distinction is a form of organizational outreach to new librarians. The Emerging Leaders are allocated to project groups tasked with developing solutions to specified problems within ALA divisions. The class meets at the ALA Midwinter and Annual Meetings, commonly January and June. Project teams may present posters of their completed projects at the Annual.[52] Conferences[edit] The ALA and its divisions hold numerous conferences throughout the year. The two largest conferences are the annual conference and the midwinter meeting. The latter is typically held in January and focused on internal business, while the annual conference is typically held in June and focused on exhibits and presentations. The ALA annual conference is notable for being one of the largest professional conferences in existence, typically drawing over 25,000 attendees.[53] in 2020 Wanda Kay Brown was the first president in 75 years under whom the Annual Conference, scheduled for Chicago in June 2020, was cancelled because of the COVID-19, Coronavirus disease 2019. In a press release about cancellation of the conference Brown stated, “ALA’s priority is the health and safety of the library community, including our members, staff, supporters, vendors and volunteers."[54]” Notable members[edit] Virginia Cleaver Bacon, Member[55] Inez Mabel Crawford, member[55] Essae Martha Culver, first State Librarian of Louisiana M. Winnifred Feighner, Assistant librarian at University of Montana Helen E. Haines, member of the Council of American Library Association and editor of its proceedings for ten years[56] Wilhelmina Harper, Supervisor of children's work for the Kern County Free Library, since 1921[55] Abigail Scofield Kellogg, San Luis Obispo City Librarian[55] Jacqueline Noel, vice-president of the Pacific Northwest Library Association and a member of the American Library Association[55] Edith Allen Phelps, twice president of the Oklahoma Library Association, the first professional in the Library Science field in the Oklahoma City system[55] Ida M. Reagan, first vice-president of the California Librarians Association[55] E. Ruth Rockwood, charter member of the Subscription Books Committee, a group to provide evaluations and advice on encyclopedias, subscription sets, and allied compends, newly founded by the American Library Association (ALA)[55] Faith Edith Smith, on the Education Committee of the American Library Association and was a member of the California Library Association[55] Carla Hayden, the 14th Librarian of Congress. Appointed in September 2016, Hayden is the first woman and the first African American to hold the post. She is the first professional librarian appointed to the post in over 60 years. Political positions[edit] ALA Seal See also: American librarianship and human rights The ALA advocates positions on United States political issues that it believes are related to libraries and librarianship. For court cases that touch on issues about which the organization holds positions, the ALA often files amici curiae briefs, voluntarily offering information on some aspect of the case to assist the court in deciding a matter before it. The ALA has an office in Washington, D.C., that lobbies Congress on issues relating to libraries, information and communication. It also provides materials to libraries that may include information on how to apply for grants, how to comply with the law, and how to oppose a law.[57] Intellectual freedom[edit] See also: Book censorship in the United States The primary documented expressions of the ALA's intellectual freedom principles are the Freedom to Read Statement[58] and the Library Bill of Rights; the Library Bill of Rights urges libraries to "challenge censorship in the fulfillment of their responsibility to provide information and enlightenment."[59] The ALA Code of Ethics also calls on librarians to "uphold the principles of intellectual freedom and resist all efforts to censor library resources."[60] The ALA maintains an Office for Intellectual Freedom (OIF), which is charged with "implementing ALA policies concerning the concept of intellectual freedom,"[61] defined as "the right of every individual to both seek and receive information from all points of view without restriction. It provides for free access to all expressions of ideas through which any and all sides of a question, cause or movement may be explored."[62] Its goal is "to educate librarians and the general public about the nature and importance of intellectual freedom in libraries." [61] The OIF compiles lists of challenged books as reported in the media and submitted to them by librarians across the country.[63] Since January 2016 the OIF has been headed by James Larue.[64] Larue is the third director of the office, having succeeded Barbara M. Jones, former University Librarian for Wesleyan University and internationally known intellectual freedom advocate and author. Jones had assumed the position in December 2009; prior to that, the first director, Judith Krug, had headed the office for four decades, until her death in April 2009.[65] In 1950, the Intellectual Freedom Committee, the forerunner of the OIF, investigated the termination of Ruth W. Brown as librarian of the Bartlesville Public Library, a position she held in the Oklahoma town for 30 years. Brown's termination was based on the false allegation that she was a communist and that she had as part of the library's serials collection two left wing publications, The New Republic and The Nation. The ALA support for her and the subsequent legal case was the first such investigation undertaken by the ALA or one of its state chapters.[66] In 1999, radio personality Laura Schlessinger campaigned publicly against the ALA's intellectual freedom policy, specifically in regard to the ALA's refusal to remove a link on its web site to a specific sex-education site for teens.[67] Sharon Priestly said, however, that Schlessinger "distorted and misrepresented the ALA stand to make it sound like the ALA was saying porno for 'children' is O.K."[68] In 2002, the ALA filed suit with library users and the ACLU against the United States Children's Internet Protection Act (CIPA), which required libraries receiving federal E-rate discounts for Internet access to install a "technology protection measure" to prevent children from accessing "visual depictions that are obscene, child pornography, or harmful to minors."[69] At trial, the federal district court struck down the law as unconstitutional.[70] The government appealed this decision, and on June 23, 2003, the Supreme Court of the United States upheld the law as constitutional as a condition imposed on institutions in exchange for government funding. In upholding the law, the Supreme Court, adopting the interpretation urged by the U.S. Solicitor General at oral argument, made it clear that the constitutionality of CIPA would be upheld only "if, as the Government represents, a librarian will unblock filtered material or disable the Internet software filter without significant delay on an adult user's request."[71] Privacy[edit] 1970s[edit] The Federal Bureau of Investigation attempted to use librarians as possible informants in the conspiracy case of the Harrisburg Seven in 1971. The Harrisburg Seven, made up of religious anti-war activists, were primarily accused of conspiring to kidnap National Security Advisor Henry Kissinger. The supposed leader of the group, Philip Berrigan, was serving time at the Lewisburg penitentiary. The FBI sought "to use library surveillance and librarian informants" at Bucknell University as evidence of the Harrisburg Seven's "characters and intentions."[72] Boyd Douglas became one such informant for the FBI: he was a prisoner at the same penitentiary with a work-release position at the library. Boyd presented himself as an anti-war activist and offered to smuggle letters he collected while at work to Philip Berrigan at the prison. The FBI also attempted to use Zoia Horn, a librarian at the Bucknell library, and interviewed other library workers. The FBI met with Horn in her home to debrief her, but Horn refused to answer their questions. She refused to testify, even after she was given immunity from self-incrimination.[73] Horn stated, "To me it stands on: Freedom of thought" and that the government "spying in homes, in libraries and universities inhibits and destroys this freedom."[74] Zoia Horn was charged with contempt of the court and served 20 days in jail. She was "the first librarian who spent time in jail for a value of our profession" according to Judith Krug of the American Library Association's Office for Intellectual Freedom.[75] Horn continued to fight for intellectual freedom in libraries and beyond. The Intellectual Freedom Committee of the California Library Association now awards the Zoia Horn Intellectual Freedom Award in honor of those who make contributions to intellectual freedom.[76] In the 1970s, United States Department of the Treasury agents also pressured public libraries across the country to "release circulation records recording the names and identifying information of people who checked out books on bomb making."[72] The ALA believed this to be an "unconscionable and unconstitutional invasion of library patrons' privacy."[72] As a result of these two situations and many others, the ALA affirmed the confidential status of all records which held patron names in a Policy on the Confidentiality of Library Records. The ALA also released the ALA Statement on Professional Ethics in 1975 which advocated for the protection of the "confidential relationship" between a library user and a library.[72] 1980s[edit] The FBI tried to use surveillance in library settings as part of its Library Awareness Program of the 1980s; it aimed to use librarians "as partners in surveillance." The program was known to the FBI as "The Development of Counterintelligence Among Librarians," indicating that the FBI believed that librarians might be supportive in its counterintelligence investigations. The FBI attempted to profile "Russian or Slavic-sounding last names" of library patrons to look for possible "national security threats." The FBI wanted libraries to help it trace "the reading habits of patrons with those names."[72] The ALA responded by writing to the FBI director. The Intellectual Freedom Committee also created "an advisory statement to warn libraries" of the Library Awareness Program, including ways to help librarians "avoid breaking their ethical obligations if faced with FBI surveillance."[77] USA PATRIOT Act[edit] In 2003, the ALA passed a resolution opposing the USA PATRIOT Act, which called sections of the law "a present danger to the constitutional rights and privacy rights of library users".[78] Since then, the ALA and its members have sought to change the law by working with members of Congress and educating their communities and the press about the law's potential to violate the privacy rights of library users. ALA has also participated as an amicus curiae in lawsuits filed by individuals challenging the constitutionality of the USA PATRIOT Act, including a lawsuit filed by four Connecticut librarians after the library consortium they managed was served with a national security letter seeking information about library users.[79] After several months of litigation, the lawsuit was dismissed when the FBI decided to withdraw the National Security Letter.[80] In 2007, the "Connecticut Four" were honored by the ALA with the Paul Howard Award for Courage for their challenge to the National Security Letter and gag order provision of the USA PATRIOT Act.[81] In 2006, the ALA sold humorous "radical militant librarian" buttons for librarians to wear in support of the ALA's stances on intellectual freedom, privacy, and civil liberties.[82] Inspiration for the button's design came from documents obtained from the FBI by the Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) through a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request. The request revealed a series of e-mails in which FBI agents complained about the "radical, militant librarians" while criticizing the reluctance of FBI management to use the secret warrants authorized under Section 215 of the USA PATRIOT Act.[83] Renaming of Laura Ingalls Wilder Medal[edit] In 2018, the organization changed the name of the Laura Ingalls Wilder Medal to the Children's Literature Legacy Award. According to the New York Times, the name change was made "in order to distance the honor" from what the ALA described as "culturally insensitive portrayals" in Wilder's books.[84] Copyright[edit] The ALA "supports efforts to amend the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) and urges the courts to restore the balance in copyright law, ensure fair use and protect and extend the public domain".[85] It supports changing copyright law to eliminate damages when using orphan works without permission;[86] is wary of digital rights management; and, in ALA v. FCC[87], successfully sued the Federal Communications Commission to prevent regulation that would enforce next-generation digital televisions to contain rights-management hardware. It has joined the Information Access Alliance to promote open access to research.[88] The Copyright Advisory Network of the association's Office for Information Technology Policy provides copyright resources to libraries and the communities they serve. The ALA is a member of the Library Copyright Alliance, along with the Association of Research Libraries and the Association of College and Research Libraries, which provides a unified voice for over 300,000 information professionals in the United States.[89] Currently, the ALA supports bill H.R. 905, also known as the You Own Devices Act, stating "to foster the social and commercial evolution of the "Internet of Things" by codifying the right of the owner of a device containing 'essential software' intrinsic to its function to transfer both the and the device."[90] ALA-Accredited Programs in Library and Information Studies[edit] Main article: List of American Library Association accredited library schools ALA-Accredited programs can be found at schools in the U.S., Puerto Rico, and Canada. Theses programs offer degrees with names such as Master of Library Science (MLS), Master of Arts, Master of Librarianship, Master of Library and Information Studies (MLIS), and Master of Science. To be accredited, the program must undergo an external review and meet the Standards for Accreditation of Master's Programs in Library and Information Studies. The ALA website provides a directory in database form of ALA-Accredited programs. There are currently 62 accredited programs, and two that are candidates seeking accreditation. See also[edit] Books portal Children's literature portal American Indian Library Association and American Indian Youth Literature Awards ANSEL American National Standard for Extended Latin Alphabet Coded Character Set for Bibliographic Use Book censorship in the United States Book Links, an ALA magazine that helps teachers, librarians, school library media specialists, and parents connect children with high-quality books Booklist, an ALA publication that provides critical reviews of books and audiovisual materials, geared toward libraries and booksellers Challenge (literature), an attempt to have books removed from a library History of public library advocacy International Federation of Library Associations (IFLA) Library Bill of Rights Library Hall of Fame Librarianship and human rights in the United States List of American Library Association accredited library schools List of presidents of the American Library Association Neal-Schuman Publishers, an imprint of the ALA Public library advocacy References[edit] ^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on January 16, 2013. Retrieved January 19, 2013.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link) ^ "ALA Annual Membership Statistics". ala.org. ^ "Financials". ala.org. Archived from the original on October 17, 2012. ^ "American Library Association". MSN Encarta. Archived from the original on November 11, 2017. Retrieved December 1, 2008. ^ "Report to Executive Board," by ALA Interim Executive Director Mary Ghikas, EBD #7.0, 2017– 2018, December 28, 2017, "The total ALA membership roster at the end of October 2017 was 57,498 compared to the October 2017 count of 57,195. A 0.52% improvement." ^ (ALA Charter Archived 2014-03-28 at the Wayback Machine) ^ "Justin Winsor | American librarian". Encyclopedia Britannica. Retrieved August 17, 2018. ^ "History". ^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on January 28, 2013. Retrieved January 19, 2013.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link) ^ "Rocks in the Whirlpool: Equity of Access and the American Library Association". | Submitted to the Executive Board of the American Library Association June 14, 2002.| ERIC (Education Resources Information Center)| ED462981| Retrieved December 21, 2011 ^ (Samek, 2001, p. 7) ^ (Robbins, 1996, p. 166) ^ a b (McCook, 2011, p. 63) ^ Rubin, R. E. (2010). Foundations of library and information science (3rd edn). New York: Neal-Schuman, p.294 ^ (McCook, 2011, p. 55) ^ (Samek, 2001, pp. 67–8) ^ (Samek, 2001, p. 69) ^ (Rubin, 2004, p. 296) ^ Bullough, Vern, ed. (2002) Before Stonewall: Activists for gay and lesbian rights in historical context. Harrington Park Press; ISBN 1-56023-192-0 ^ "Gay Pioneers". Gay Pioneers. Retrieved December 16, 2019. ^ Warner David."20 questions". Archived from the original on May 16, 2008. CityPaper.net. April 22–29, 1999; accessed November 4, 2007. ^ (Berman, 2001, p. 12) ^ "Award-Winning Author Jacqueline Woodson Responds to Racist Joke", The Advocate, November 29, 2014 ^ "ALA Archives". ALA. Archived from the original on September 20, 2010. Retrieved September 1, 2010. ^ "ALA International Member Survey". ALA. Archived from the original on October 15, 2012. Retrieved November 14, 2006. ^ "Keith Michael Fiels named ALA's new Executive Director" (Press release). ALA. April 22, 2002. Archived from the original on September 30, 2007. Retrieved November 14, 2006. ^ "Brown Wins 2019–2020 ALA Presidency". American Library Association. April 11, 2018. Retrieved November 8, 2019. ^ "Wisconsin Library Hall of Fame". libraryhistorybuff.com. ^ "ALA's Past Presidents | About ALA". Ala.org. Retrieved October 28, 2015. ^ McCook, Kathleen de la Peña. Women of Color in Librarianship, Chicago: American Library Association, 1998 ^ "ALA – Loriene Roy elected ALA president for 2007–2008". ala.org. June 5, 2006. ^ "The American Indian Experience". EBSCO. ^ "Roberta Stevens elected ALA President for 2010–2011". ALA. Retrieved September 1, 2010. ^ "Pratt Director Carla Hayden Elected ALA President". ALA. Archived from the original on April 26, 2018. Retrieved May 6, 2002. ^ Home page Archived January 11, 2011, at the Wayback Machine. ALA Editions. Retrieved on January 29, 2011. ^ ala.org. The Social Responsibilities Round Table of the American Library Association http://www.ala.org/rt/srrt/about-srrt. Retrieved March 31, 2018. Missing or empty |title= (help) ^ "Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgendered Round Table (GLBTRT)". ALA. Archived from the original on September 16, 2010. Retrieved September 1, 2010. ^ Gittings, Barbara (1990). Gays in Library Land: The Gay and Lesbian Task Force of the American Library Association: The First Sixteen Years. Philadelphia. ^ "Israel David Fishman papers". Retrieved October 9, 2017. ^ "COSWL". ala.org. ^ a b http://www.library.illinois.edu/archives/ala/holdings/?p=creators/creator&id=3540[permanent dead link] ^ "Black Caucus of the American Library Association". ALA. ^ http://www.ala.org/aboutala/affiliates/affiliates/bcala. Retrieved October 20, 2018. ^ Peggy Barber. “Mickey Mouse, Miss Piggy and the Birth of ALA Graphics.” American Libraries, vol. 34, no. 5, May 2003, pp. 60–63 ^ "Spectrum Scholarship Program". ala.org. Archived from the original on April 4, 2014. ^ "ALA Scholarships | Awards & Grants". ala.org. Retrieved March 19, 2018. ^ "National Library Week Fact Sheet". ala.org. ^ "Awards and Grants". ALA. Archived from the original on September 2, 2010. Retrieved September 1, 2010. ^ "Welcome to the Odyssey Award home page!". Association for Library Service to Children (ALSC). American Library Association (ALA). Retrieved April 19, 2012. ^ "The Notorious Benedict Arnold: A True Story of Adventure, Heroism & Treachery wins 2012 YALSA Award for Excellence in Nonfiction for Young Adults" Archived April 21, 2012, at the Wayback Machine. ALA Press Release. January 23, 2012. Retrieved 2012-04-21. ^ "YALSA Award for Excellence in Nonfiction for Young Adults". YALSA. ALA. Retrieved 2012-04-21. ^ Emerging Leaders Program Info: http://www.ala.org/educationcareers/leadership/emergingleaders ^ "Conference Services". ALA. Archived from the original on November 16, 2006. Retrieved November 14, 2006. ^ American Library Association cancels 2020 Annual Conference due to COVID-19, American Library Association, March 24, 2020. ^ a b c d e f g h i Binheim, Max; Elvin, Charles A (1928). Women of the West; a series of biographical sketches of living eminent women in the eleven western states of the United States of America. Retrieved August 8, 2017. This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain. ^ "Necrology". ALA Bulletin. 38 (13): H375–H377. 1944. JSTOR 25691996. ^ "Washington Office". ALA. June 30, 2006. Archived from the original on September 20, 2010. Retrieved September 1, 2010. ^ "Freedom to Read Statement". ALA. July 26, 2006. Archived from the original on August 26, 2010. Retrieved April 25, 2018. ^ "Library Bill of Rights". ALA. June 30, 2006. Archived from the original on September 20, 2010. Retrieved September 1, 2010. ^ "Article II, ALA Code of Professional Ethics". ALA. Archived from the original on September 20, 2010. Retrieved September 1, 2010. ^ a b "Office for Intellectual Freedom". ALA. June 9, 2008. Archived from the original on September 20, 2010. Retrieved September 2, 2010. ^ "Intellectual Freedom and Censorship Q & A". ALA. Archived from the original on April 2, 2013. Retrieved September 1, 2010. ^ "Frequently Challenged Books". ALA. Archived from the original on September 20, 2010. Retrieved September 1, 2010. ^ Caldwell-Stone, Deborah (December 9, 2015). "James LaRue to head ALA's Office for Intellectual Freedom and the Freedom to Read Foundation". Intellectual Freedom Blog. The Office for Intellectual Freedom of the American Library Association. oif.ala.org. Retrieved 2018-01-05. ^ "Barbara Jones, Ex-Director at Wesleyan, Named Head of ALA OIF and FTRF". Library Journal. MediaSource, Inc. December 2, 2009. Archived from the original on June 14, 2012. Retrieved September 1, 2010. ^ Robbins, L.S. (2000). The dismissal of Miss Ruth Brown. Norman, The University of Oklahoma Press. ^ ""Dr. Laura" Continues Criticism of ALA". Library Journal. MediaSource, Inc. May 10, 1999. Archived from the original on September 30, 2007. Retrieved November 14, 2006. ^ Priestly, Sharon (Winter 2001). "Don't Listen to Dr. Laura". Free Inquiry. 41 (1). ^ "Text of the Children's Internet Protection Act" (PDF). ^ United States v. Am. Lib. Asso., 201 F.Supp.2d 401, 490 (2002) ^ "US v ALA 539 U.S. 194, 2003". FindLaw. Archived from the original on February 19, 2007. Retrieved March 21, 2007. ^ a b c d e Lamdan, Sarah Shik (2013). "Why library cards offer more privacy rights than proof of citizenship: Librarian ethics and Freedom of Information Act requestor policies". Government Information Quarterly. 30 (2): 133. doi:10.1016/j.giq.2012.12.005. ^ Sparanese, Ann (2003). "Activist Librarianship: Heritage or Heresy?". Progressive Librarian. 22: 45 – via Biography Reference Bank. ^ Zwerling, Philip (2011). The CIA on Campus: Essays on Academic Freedom and the National Security State. McFarland & Company. p. 105. ISBN 9780786488896 – via Google Books. ^ Egelko, Bob (July 15, 2014). "Zoia Horn, librarian jailed for not testifying against protesters". San Francisco Chronicle. Retrieved November 28, 2016. ^ "Zoia Horn Intellectual Freedom Award". California Library Association. ^ Lamdan, Sarah Shik (2013). "Why library cards offer more privacy rights than proof of citizenship: Librarian ethics and Freedom of Information Act requestor policies". Government Information Quarterly. 30 (2): 134. doi:10.1016/j.giq.2012.12.005 – via Science Direct. ^ "Resolution on the USA PATRIOT Act and Related Measures that Infringe on the Rights of Library Users". ALA. January 29, 2003. Archived from the original on February 3, 2012. Retrieved September 1, 2010. ^ Cowan, Alison Leigh (May 31, 2006). "Four Librarians Finally Break Silence in Records Case". The New York Times. Retrieved February 7, 2007. ^ "FBI drops demand for information from Connecticut library group". Raw Story. June 26, 2006. Archived from the original on July 15, 2013. Retrieved February 7, 2007. ^ McCook, Kathleen de la Peña (2011), Introduction to Public Librarianship, pp. 63–64. 2nd ed. New York, Neal-Schuman. ^ ""Radical, Militant Librarian" Button". ALA. Archived from the original on October 24, 2012. Retrieved September 1, 2010. ^ "ALA introduces "Radical, Militant Librarian" button" (Press release). ALA. January 17, 2006. Archived from the original on April 4, 2007. Retrieved March 7, 2007. ^ Chokshi, Niraj (June 26, 2018). "Prestigious Laura Ingalls Wilder Award Renamed Over Racial Insensitivity". New York Times. Retrieved September 19, 2018. ^ Nisbet, Miriam (October 2006). "2006 Copyright Agenda" (PDF). ALA. Retrieved September 1, 2010. [permanent dead link] ^ "Re: Orphan Works Notice of Inquiry" (PDF). Library Copyright Alliance / U.S. Copyright Office. Archived (PDF) from the original on June 27, 2009. Retrieved July 12, 2009. ^ "American Library Association v. Federal Communications Commission". Electronic Frontier Foundation. July 2011. ^ "Open Access". ALA. Archived from the original on September 20, 2010. Retrieved March 24, 2015. ^ "Background". Library Copyright Alliance. Archived from the original on April 14, 2014. Retrieved March 31, 2014. ^ "Copyright". American Library Association. March 10, 2019. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to American Library Association. Wikiquote has quotations related to: libraries Official website Works by American Library Association at Project Gutenberg Works by or about American Library Association at Internet Archive v t e American Library Association Founders Justin Winsor Charles Ammi Cutter Samuel S. Green James L. Whitney Melvil Dewey Fred B. Perkins Thomas W. Bicknell Notable divisions American Association of School Librarians (AASL) Association for Library Collections and Technical Services (ALCTS) Association for Library Service to Children (ALSC) Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL) Association of Specialized and Cooperative Library Agencies (ASCLA) Library Information Technology Association (LITA) Public Library Association (PLA) Reference and User Services Association (RUSA) Young Adult Library Services Association (YALSA) Magazines American Libraries Booklist Children and Libraries Choice College & Research Libraries Public Libraries Young Adult Library Services Literary awards and honors Books for adults Andrew Carnegie Dartmouth Stonewall Brody Gleason library history For children and young adults Newbery Caldecott Legacy Arbuthnot Geisel Batchelder Belpré King Stonewall Schneider Sibert Odyssey (audio) Carnegie (video) Nonfiction YA Printz Edwards Morris Book lists ALA Notable Books Alex Awards Best Books for Young Adults Outstanding Academic Title Outstanding Reference Sources Related Presidents of the ALA ALA accredited library schools Banned Books Week Freedom to Read Foundation Library Bill of Rights United States v. American Library Ass'n v t e Patriot Act Titles I · II · III · IV · V · VI · VII · VIII · IX · X (History) Acts modified Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 Electronic Communications Privacy Act Computer Fraud and Abuse Act Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Money Laundering Control Act Bank Secrecy Act Right to Financial Privacy Act Fair Credit Reporting Act Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 Victims of Crime Act of 1984 Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act People George W. Bush John Ashcroft Alberto Gonzales Patrick Leahy Orrin Hatch Jon Kyl Dianne Feinstein Viet D. Dinh Joe Biden Michael Chertoff Barack Obama Eric Holder Chuck Schumer Lamar Smith Bob Graham Jay Rockefeller Arlen Specter Mike Oxley Dick Armey Paul Sarbanes Trent Lott Tom Daschle Russ Feingold Ellen Huvelle Ron Paul Lisa Murkowski Ron Wyden Dennis Kucinich Larry Craig John E. Sununu Richard Durbin Bernie Sanders Jerry Nadler John Conyers Jr. Butch Otter Government organizations Federal Bureau of Investigation Department of Justice Select Committee on Intelligence Department of the Treasury FinCEN Department of State National Institute of Standards and Technology Customs Service U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Non-government organizations American Civil Liberties Union American Library Association Center for Democracy and Technology Center for Public Integrity Electronic Frontier Foundation Electronic Privacy Information Center Humanitarian Law Project Authority control BNF: cb11870682z (data) CANTIC: a10039776 GND: 4793-4 ISNI: 0000 0001 1544 1448 LCCN: n79062941 NKC: ko2002160123 SUDOC: 026462923 Trove: 786539 VIAF: 120688768 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n79062941 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=American_Library_Association&oldid=947206154" Categories: Professional associations based in the United States Library-related professional associations Non-profit organizations based in Chicago Political advocacy groups in the United States Organizations established in 1876 American Library Association Library associations based in Chicago 1876 establishments in Pennsylvania American librarianship and human rights Professional associations based in Chicago Hidden categories: CS1 maint: archived copy as title Webarchive template wayback links Pages with citations lacking titles Pages with citations having bare URLs All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from October 2016 Articles with permanently dead external links Articles with dead external links from September 2017 Articles with short description Use American English from March 2019 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use mdy dates from March 2019 Commons category link from Wikidata Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia Articles with Project Gutenberg links Articles with Internet Archive links Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with CANTIC identifiers Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with NKC identifiers Wikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers Wikipedia articles with Trove identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? Català Deutsch ???????? Español ????? Français ??? Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Latviešu ??? Norsk bokmål Polski Português Român? ??????? Simple English ?????? / srpski Suomi Svenska Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 24 March 2020, at 22:59 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Joseph@John.ca
