Anarchy - Wikipedia Anarchy From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search For other uses, see Anarchy (disambiguation). State of a society being without a governing body Part of the Politics series on Anarchism Schools of thought Black Capitalist Christian Collectivist Communist Egoist Existentialist Feminist Green Independence Individualist Insurrectionary Mutualist Naturist Pacifist Philosophical Platformist Post-anarchist Post-colonial Primitivist Queer Social Syndicalist Synthesist Without adjectives Theory Practice Anarchy Anarchist Black Cross Anationalism Anti-authoritarianism Anti-capitalism Anti-militarism Affinity group Autonomous social center Black bloc Classless society Class struggle Communes Consensus democracy Conscientious objector Decentralization Deep ecology Direct action Direct democracy Especifismo Expropriative anarchism Free association Free love Freed market Freethought Horizontalidad Illegalism Individualism Individual reclamation Isocracy Law Magonism Mutual aid Participatory politics Permanent autonomous zone Prefigurative politics Proletarian internationalism Propaganda of the deed Refusal of work Revolution Rewilding Security culture Self-ownership Social ecology Somatherapy Spontaneous order Squatting Temporary autonomous zone Union of egoists People Armand Bakunin Berkman Bonannp Bookchin Chomsky Durruti Faure Gandhi Godwin Goldman Ferrer Kropotkin Landauer Magón Makhno Malatesta Michel Most Rocker Proudhon Santillán Spooner Stirner Thoreau Tolstoy Tucker Volin Ward Warren Zerzan Issues Animal rights Veganism Capitalism Anarcho-capitalism Right-libertarianism Criticism Cryptography Education Islam Left-wing Lifestylism Love and sex Marxism Nationalism National-anarchism Orthodox Judaism Religion Violence History Paris Commune Cantonal Revolution Hague Congress International Conference of Rome Trial of the Thirty Haymarket affair May Day Anarchist Exclusion Act Congress of Amsterdam Tragic Week High Treason Incident Manifesto of the Sixteen Individualist anarchism in the United States 1919 United States bombings Biennio Rosso German Revolution of 1918–1919 Bavarian Council Republic Kronstadt rebellion Third Russian Revolution Free Territory Amakasu Incident Escuela Moderna Individualist anarchism in Europe Spanish Revolution of 1936 Barcelona May Days Red inverted triangle Labadie Collection May 1968 Provo LIP Kate Sharpley Library Australian Anarchist Centenary Carnival Against Capital 1999 Seattle WTO protests Occupy movement Culture A las Barricadas Anarchist Bookfair Anarcho-punk Arts Culture jamming DIY ethic Films Freeganism Glossary Independent Media Center The Internationale Jewish anarchism "Land and liberty" Lifestylism "No gods, no masters" Popular education "Property is theft!" Radical cheerleading Radical environmentalism Squatting Symbolism Economics Communization Cooperative Cost the limit of price Economic democracy Economic secession General strike Gift economy Give-away shop Market abolitionism Mutual aid Participatory economics Really Really Free Market Social ownership Wage slavery Workers' self-management By region Africa Argentina Australia Azerbaijan Bolivia Brazil Canada Chile China Cuba Ecuador Egypt France French Guiana Germany Greece India Iceland Ireland Israel Italy Japan Korea Mexico Monaco New Zealand Poland Puerto Rico Romania Russia Singapore South Africa Spain Sweden Turkey Ukraine United Kingdom United States Venezuela Vietnam Lists Anarcho-punk bands Books Communities Fictional characters Films Jewish anarchists Love and sex Musicians Periodicals Related topics Anti-corporatism Anti-consumerism Anti-fascism Anti-globalization Anti-statism Anti-war Autarchism Autonomism Communism Counter-economics Definition of anarchism and libertarianism Labour movement Left communism Left-libertarianism Libertarianism Libertarian Marxism Libertarian socialism Marxism Situationist International Socialism Spontaneous order Voluntaryism Anarchism portal Politics portal v t e Part of the Politics series Basic forms of government Power structure Separation Associated state Chiefdom Dominion Protectorate Federalism Confederation Devolution Federation Integration Empire Hegemony Unitary state Administrative division Power source Democracy (rule of the people) Demarchy Direct Liberal Representative Social Socialist Others Oligarchy (rule of few) Anocracy Aristocracy Capitalist Ergatocracy Geniocracy Gerontocracy Kakistocracy Kleptocracy Kraterocracy Kritarchy Meritocracy Noocracy Particracy Plutocracy Stratocracy Synarchy Technocracy Theocracy Timocracy Autocracy (rule of one) Despotism Dictatorship Military dictatorship Tyranny Anarchism (rule of none) Anarchy Free association Stateless Power ideology Monarchy vs. republic (socio-political ideologies) Absolute Constitutional Directorial Legalist Parliamentary Presidential Semi-presidential Socialist Authoritarian vs. libertarian (socio-economic ideologies) Anarchism Colonialism Communism Despotism Distributism Feudalism Socialism Totalitarianism Tribalism Global vs. local (geo-cultural ideologies) Commune City-state Intergovernmental organisation National government World government Nationalism Internationalism Globalism Politics portal v t e Anarchist symbol Anarchy is the state of a society being freely constituted without authorities or a governing body. It may also refer to a society or group of people that totally rejects a set hierarchy.[1] The word anarchy was first used in 1539, meaning "an absence of government".[2] Pierre-Joseph Proudhon adopted the term in his 1840 treatise What Is Property? to refer to anarchism, a new political philosophy which advocates stateless societies based on voluntary associations. In practical terms, anarchy can refer to the curtailment or abolition of traditional forms of government and institutions. It can also designate a nation or any inhabited place that has no system of government or central rule. Anarchy is primarily advocated by individual anarchists who propose replacing government with voluntary institutions. Contents 1 Etymology 2 Political philosophy 2.1 Description 2.2 Immanuel Kant 3 Anthropology 4 Examples of state-collapse anarchy 4.1 English Civil War (1642–1651) 4.2 French Revolution (1789–1799) 4.3 Jamaica (1720) 4.4 Russian Civil War (1917–1922) 4.5 Spain (1936) 4.6 Albania (1997) 4.7 Somalia (1991–2006) 5 Lists of ungoverned communities 5.1 Ungoverned communities 5.2 Anarchist communities 6 See also 7 References 8 External links Etymology[edit] The word anarchy comes from the Medieval Latin word anarchia and then from the Greek word anarchos ("having no ruler"), with an-+ archos ("ruler") literally meaning "without ruler".[2] Political philosophy[edit] Description[edit] Main article: Anarchism Anarchism as a political philosophy advocates self-governed societies based on voluntary institutions. These are often described as stateless societies,[3][4][5][6] although several authors have defined them more specifically as institutions based on non-hierarchical free associations.[7][8][9][10] Anarchism holds the state to be undesirable, unnecessary, or harmful.[11][12] While anti-statism is central,[13] anarchism entails opposing authority or hierarchical organisation in the conduct of all human relations, including yet not limited to the state system.[8][14][15][16][17][18][19][20] There are many types and traditions of anarchism, not all of which are mutually exclusive.[21] Anarchist schools of thought can differ fundamentally, supporting anything from extreme individualism to complete collectivism.[12] Strains of anarchism have been divided into the categories of social and individualist anarchism or similar dual classifications.[22][23] Anarchism is often considered to be a radical left-wing ideology[24][25] and much of anarchist economics and anarchist legal philosophy reflect anti-statist interpretations of communism, collectivism, syndicalism, or participatory economics. Some individualist anarchists are also socialists or communists while some anarcho-communists are also individualists[26][27] or egoists.[28][29] Anarchism as a social movement has regularly endured fluctuations in popularity. The central tendency of anarchism as a mass social movement has been represented by anarcho-communism and anarcho-syndicalism, with individualist anarchism being primarily a literary phenomenon[30] which nevertheless did influence the bigger currents[31] and individualists also participated in large anarchist organizations.[32][33] Some anarchists oppose all forms of aggression and support self-defense or non-violence (anarcho-pacifism)[34][35] while others have supported the use of militant measures, including revolution and propaganda of the deed, on the path to an anarchist society.[36] Since the 1890s, the term libertarianism has been used as a synonym for anarchism[37][38] and was used almost exclusively in this sense until the 1950s in the United States. At this time, classical liberals in the United States began to describe themselves as libertarians and it has since become necessary to distinguish their individualist and capitalist philosophy from socialist anarchism. Thus, the former is often referred to as right-wing libertarianism or simply right-libertarianism whereas the latter is described by the terms libertarian socialism, socialist libertarianism, left-libertarianism and left-anarchism.[39][40] Right-libertarians are divided into minarchists and anarcho-capitalists or voluntarists. Outside the English-speaking world, libertarianism generally retains its association with left-wing anarchism.[41] Immanuel Kant[edit] The German philosopher Immanuel Kant treated anarchy in his Anthropology from a Pragmatic Point of View as consisting of "Law and Freedom without Force". For Kant, anarchy falls short of being a true civil state because the law is only an "empty recommendation" if force is not included to make this law efficacious ("legitimation", etymologically fancifully from legem timere, i.e. "fearing the law").[42] For there to be such a state, force must be included while law and freedom are maintained, a state which Kant calls a republic.[43][44] Kant identified four kinds of government: Law and freedom without force (anarchy) Law and force without freedom (despotism) Force without freedom and law (barbarism) Force with freedom and law (republic) Anthropology[edit] See also: Acephalous society, Stateless society, Primitive communism, and Anarcho-primitivism Although most known societies are characterized by the presence of hierarchy or the state, anthropologists have studied many egalitarian stateless societies, including most nomadic hunter-gatherer societies[45][46] and horticultural societies such as the Semai and the Piaroa. Many of these societies can be considered to be anarchic in the sense that they explicitly reject the idea of centralized political authority.[47] The egalitarianism typical of human hunter-gatherers is interesting when viewed in an evolutionary context. One of humanity's two closest primate relatives, the chimpanzee, is anything but egalitarian, forming hierarchies that are dominated by alpha males. So great is the contrast with human hunter-gatherers that it is widely argued by palaeoanthropologists that resistance to being dominated was a key factor driving the development of human consciousness, language, kinship and social organization.[48][49][50] In Fragments of an Anarchist Anthropology, anarchist anthropologist David Graeber attempts to outline areas of research that intellectuals might explore in creating a cohesive body of anarchist social theory. Graeber posits that anthropology is "particularly well positioned" as an academic discipline that can look at the gamut of human societies and organizations to study, analyze and catalog alternative social and economic structures around the world, and most importantly, present these alternatives to the world.[51] In Society Against the State, Pierre Clastres examines stateless societies where certain cultural practices and attitudes avert the development of hierarchy and the state. He dismisses the notion that the state is the natural outcome of the evolution of human societies.[52] In The Art of Not Being Governed, James C. Scott studies Zomia, a vast stateless upland region on Southeast Asia. The hills of Zomia isolate it from the lowland states and create a refuge for people to escape to. Scott argues that the particular social and cultural characteristics of the hill people were adapted to escape capture by the lowland states and should not be viewed as relics of barbarism abandoned by civilization.[53] Peter Leeson examines a variety of institutions of private law enforcement developed in anarchic situations by eighteenth century pirates, preliterate tribesmen, and Californian prison gangs. These groups all adapted different methods of private law enforcement to meet their specific needs and the particulars of their anarchic situation.[54] Anarcho-primitivists base their critique of civilization partly on anthropological studies of nomadic hunter-gatherers, noting that the shift towards domestication has likely caused increases in disease, labor, inequality, warfare and psychological disorders.[55][56][57] Authors such as John Zerzan have argued that negative stereotypes of primitive societies (e.g. that they are typically extremely violent or impoverished) are used to justify the values of modern industrial society and to move individuals further away from more natural and equitable conditions.[58][59] Examples of state-collapse anarchy[edit] See also: Failed states Mainland Europe experienced near-anarchy in the Thirty Years' War (1618–1648) English Civil War (1642–1651)[edit] Main article: English Civil War Anarchy was one of the issues at the Putney Debates of 1647: Thomas Rainsborough: I shall now be a little more free and open with you than I was before. I wish we were all true-hearted, and that we did all carry ourselves with integrity. If I did mistrust you I would not use such asseverations. I think it doth go on mistrust, and things are thought too readily matters of reflection, that were never intended. For my part, as I think, you forgot something that was in my speech, and you do not only yourselves believe that some men believe that the government is never correct, but you hate all men that believe that. And, sir, to say because a man pleads that every man hath a voice by right of nature, that therefore it destroys by the same argument all property – this is to forget the Law of God. That there's a property, the Law of God says it; else why hath God made that law, Thou shalt not steal? I am a poor man, therefore I must be oppressed: if I have no interest in the kingdom, I must suffer by all their laws be they right or wrong. Nay thus: a gentleman lives in a country and hath three or four lordships, as some men have (God knows how they got them); and when a Parliament is called he must be a Parliament-man; and it may be he sees some poor men, they live near this man, he can crush them – I have known an invasion to make sure he hath turned the poor men out of doors; and I would fain know whether the potency of rich men do not this, and so keep them under the greatest tyranny that was ever thought of in the world. And therefore I think that to that it is fully answered: God hath set down that thing as to propriety with this law of his, Thou shalt not steal. And for my part I am against any such thought, and, as for yourselves, I wish you would not make the world believe that we are for anarchy. Oliver Cromwell: I know nothing but this, that they that are the most yielding have the greatest wisdom; but really, sir, this is not right as it should be. No man says that you have a mind to anarchy, but that the consequence of this rule tends to anarchy, must end in anarchy; for where is there any bound or limit set if you take away this limit, that men that have no interest but the interest of breathing shall have no voice in elections? Therefore, I am confident on’t, we should not be so hot one with another.[60] As people began to theorize about the English Civil War, anarchy came to be more sharply defined, albeit from differing political perspectives: 1651 – Thomas Hobbes (Leviathan) describes the natural condition of mankind as a war of all against all, where man lives a brutish existence: "For the savage people in many places of America, except the government of small families, the concord whereof dependeth on natural lust, have no government at all, and live at this day in that brutish manner".[61] Hobbes finds three basic causes of the conflict in this state of nature, namely competition, diffidence and glory: "The first maketh men invade for gain; the second, for safety; and the third, for reputation". His first law of nature is that "every man ought to endeavour peace, as far as he has hope of obtaining it; and when he cannot obtain it, that he may seek and use all helps and advantages of war". In the state of nature, "every man has a right to every thing, even to then go for one another's body", but the second law is that in order to secure the advantages of peace "that a man be willing, when others are so too [...] to lay down this right to all things; and be contented with so much liberty against other men as he would allow other men against himself". This is the beginning of contracts/covenants; performing of which is the third law of nature. Therefore, injustice is failure to perform in a covenant and all else is just. 1656 – James Harrington (The Commonwealth of Oceana) uses the term to describe a situation where the people use force to impose a government on an economic base composed of either solitary land ownership (absolute monarchy), or land in the ownership of a few (mixed monarchy). He distinguishes it from commonwealth, the situation when both land ownership and governance shared by the population at large, seeing it as a temporary situation arising from an imbalance between the form of government and the form of property relations. French Revolution (1789–1799)[edit] Main articles: French Revolution and Reign of Terror Heads of aristocrats on spikes Thomas Carlyle, Scottish essayist of the Victorian era known foremost for his widely influential work of history, The French Revolution, wrote that the French Revolution was a war against both aristocracy and anarchy: Meanwhile, we will hate Anarchy as Death, which it is; and the things worse than Anarchy shall be hated more! Surely Peace alone is fruitful. Anarchy is destruction: a burning up, say, of Shams and Insupportabilities; but which leaves Vacancy behind. Know this also, that out of a world of Unwise nothing but an Unwisdom can be made. Arrange it, Constitution-build it, sift it through Ballot-Boxes as thou wilt, it is and remains an Unwisdom,-- the new prey of new quacks and unclean things, the latter end of it slightly better than the beginning. Who can bring a wise thing out of men unwise? Not one. And so Vacancy and general Abolition having come for this France, what can Anarchy do more? Let there be Order, were it under the Soldier's Sword; let there be Peace, that the bounty of the Heavens be not spilt; that what of Wisdom they do send us bring fruit in its season! – It remains to be seen how the quellers of Sansculottism were themselves quelled, and sacred right of Insurrection was blown away by gunpowder: wherewith this singular eventful History called French Revolution ends.[62] Armand II, duke of Aiguillon came before the National Assembly in 1789 and shared his views on the anarchy: I may be permitted here to express my personal opinion. I shall no doubt not be accused of not loving liberty, but I know that not all movements of peoples lead to liberty. But I know that great anarchy quickly leads to great exhaustion and that despotism, which is a kind of rest, has almost always been the necessary result of great anarchy. It is therefore much more important than we think to end the disorder under which we suffer. If we can achieve this only through the use of force by authorities, then it would be thoughtless to keep refraining from using such force.[63] Armand II was later exiled because he was viewed as being opposed to the revolution's violent tactics. Professor Chris Bossche commented on the role of anarchy in the revolution: In The French Revolution, the narrative of increasing anarchy undermined the narrative in which the revolutionaries were striving to create a new social order by writing a constitution.[64] Jamaica (1720)[edit] In 1720, Sir Nicholas Lawes, Governor of Jamaica, wrote to John Robinson, the Bishop of London: As to the Englishmen that came as mechanics hither, very young and have now acquired good estates in Sugar Plantations and Indigo & co., of course they know no better than what maxims they learn in the Country. To be now short & plain Your Lordship will see that they have no maxims of Church and State but what are absolutely anarchical. In the letter, Lawes goes on to complain that these "estated men now are like Jonah's gourd" and details the humble origins of the "creolians" largely lacking an education and flouting the rules of church and state. In particular, he cites their refusal to abide by the Deficiency Act which required slave owners to procure from England one white person for every 40 enslaved Africans, thereby hoping to expand their own estates and inhibit further English/Irish immigration. Lawes describes the government as being "anarchical, but nearest to any form of Aristocracy", further arguing: "Must the King's good subjects at home who are as capable to begin plantations, as their Fathers, and themselves were, be excluded from their Liberty of settling Plantations in this noble Island, for ever and the King and Nation at home be deprived of so much riches, to make a few upstart Gentlemen Princes?"[65] Russian Civil War (1917–1922)[edit] Nestor Makhno, the leader of the anarchist Free Territory in Ukraine during the Russian Civil War in 1918 During the Russian Civil War which initially started as a confrontation between the Bolsheviks and monarchists, on the territory of today's Ukraine a new force emerged, namely the Anarchist Revolutionary Insurrectionary Army of Ukraine led by Nestor Makhno. The Ukrainian Anarchist during the Russian Civil War (also called the Black Army) organized the Free Territory, an anarchist society committed to resisting state authority, whether capitalist or communist.[66][67] This project was cut short by the consolidation of Bolshevik power. Makhno was described by anarchist theorist Emma Goldman as "an extraordinary figure" leading a revolutionary peasants' movement.[68] During 1918, most of Ukraine was controlled by the forces of the Central Powers which were unpopular among the people. In March 1918, the young anarchist Makhno's forces and allied anarchist and guerrilla groups won victories against German, Austrian and Ukrainian nationalist (the army of Symon Petlura) forces and units of the White Army, capturing a lot of German and Austro-Hungarian arms. These victories over much larger enemy forces established Makhno's reputation as a military tactician and became known as Batko ("Father") to his admirers.[69] Makhno called the Bolsheviks dictators and opposed the "Cheka [secret police] [...] and similar compulsory authoritative and disciplinary institutions" and called for "[f]reedom of speech, press, assembly, unions and the like".[70] The Bolsheviks accused the Makhnovists of imposing a formal government over the area they controlled and also said that Makhnovists used forced conscription, committed summary executions and had two military and counter-intelligence forces, namely the Razvedka and the Kommissiya Protivmakhnovskikh Del (patterned after the Cheka and the GRU).[71] However, later historians have dismissed these claims as fraudulent propaganda.[72] Spain (1936)[edit] Further information: Anarchism in Spain Francisco Franco, a fascist Spanish general staged a military rebellion which attempted to overthrow the Popular Front (the established Spanish government), in 1936. Following Franco's rebellion, anarchist, communist and what remained of Popular Front joined forces against Franco. This was seen as a social revolution as much as a political revolution to some. Throughout the war and shortly after, many Spanish working-class citizens lived in anarchist communities, many of which thrived during this time. With major support of Germany and Italy, the Nationalists won the war and set up a fascist dictatorship led by Franco, effectively ending much of the anarchism in Spain.[73] Albania (1997)[edit] Main article: 1997 rebellion in Albania In 1997, Albania fell into a state of anarchy, mainly due to the heavy losses of money caused by the collapse of pyramid firms. As a result of the societal collapse, heavily armed criminals roamed freely with near total impunity. There were often 3–4 gangs per city, especially in the south, where the police did not have sufficient resources to deal with gang-related crime. Somalia (1991–2006)[edit] Main article: History of Somalia (1991–2006) Map of Somalia showing the major self-declared states and areas of factional control in 2006 Following the outbreak of the civil war in Somalia and the ensuing collapse of the central government, residents reverted to local forms of conflict resolution, either secular, traditional or Islamic law, with a provision for appeal of all sentences. The legal structure in the country was thus divided along three lines: civil law, religious law and customary law (xeer).[74] While Somalia's formal judicial system was largely destroyed after the fall of the Siad Barre regime, it was later gradually rebuilt and administered under different regional governments, such as the autonomous Puntland and Somaliland macro-regions. In the case of the Transitional National Government and its successor the Transitional Federal Government, new interim judicial structures were formed through various international conferences. Despite some significant political differences between them, all of these administrations shared similar legal structures, much of which were predicated on the judicial systems of previous Somali administrations. These similarities in civil law included: a) a charter which affirms the primacy of Muslim shari'a or religious law, although in practice shari'a is applied mainly to matters such as marriage, divorce, inheritance and civil issues. The charter assured the independence of the judiciary which in turn was protected by a judicial committee; b) a three-tier judicial system including a supreme court, a court of appeals and courts of first instance (either divided between district and regional courts, or a single court per region); and c) the laws of the civilian government which were in effect prior to the military coup d'état that saw the Barre regime into power remain in forced until the laws are amended.[75] Lists of ungoverned communities[edit] Ungoverned communities[edit] The entrance of Freetown Christiania, a Danish neighborhood autonomous from local government controls Zomia, Southeast Asian highlands beyond control of governments Republic of Cospaia[76] (1440–1826) Anarchy in the United States (19th century) Diggers (England; 1649–1651) Libertatia (late 17th century) Neutral Moresnet[77] (26 June 1816 – 28 June 1919) Kowloon Walled City was a largely ungoverned squatter settlement from the mid 1940s until the early 1970s Drop City, the first rural hippie commune (Colorado; 1965–1977) Comunidad de Población en Resistencia (CPR), indigenous movement (Guatemala; 1988–present) Slab City, squatted RV desert community (California; 1965–present) Abahlali baseMjondolo, a South African social movement (2005–present) Ras Khamis Anarchist communities[edit] For a more comprehensive list, see List of anarchist communities. Anarchists have been involved in a wide variety of communities. While there are only a few instances of mass society anarchies that have come about from explicitly anarchist revolutions, there are also examples of intentional communities founded by anarchists. Intentional communities Utopia, Ohio (1847) Whiteway Colony (1898) Kibbutz (1909–present) Life and Labor Commune (1921) Freetown Christiania (September 26, 1971) Trumbullplex (1993) Mass societies Free Territory (Ukraine; November 1918 – 1921) Revolutionary Catalonia (21 July 1936–May 1939) Shinmin Prefecture (1929–1931) Federation of Neighborhood Councils-El Alto (Fejuve; 1979–present) Rebel Autonomous Zapatista Municipalities (MAREZ; 1994–present) Democratic Federation of Northern Syria (Rojava; 2012–present) See also[edit] Anarchist feminism Anomie Criticisms of electoral politics Libertarian socialism List of anarchist organizations Outline of anarchism Power vacuum Unorganization References[edit] ^ Benjamin Franks; Nathan Jun; Leonard Williams (2018). Anarchism: A Conceptual Approach. Taylor & Francis. pp. 104–. ISBN 978-1-317-40681-5. Anarchism can be defined in terms of a rejection of hierarchies, such as capitalism, racism or sexism, a social view of freedom in which access to material resources and liberty of others as prerequisites to personal freedom [...]. ^ a b "Anarchy". Merriam-webster.com. Retrieved 22 January 2020. ^ "[Anarchism], a social philosophy that rejects authoritarian government and maintains that voluntary institutions are best suited to express man's natural social tendencies." George Woodcock. "Anarchism" in The Encyclopedia of Philosophy. ^ "In a society developed on these lines, the voluntary associations which already now begin to cover all the fields of human activity would take a still greater extension so as to substitute themselves for the state in all its functions." Peter Kropotkin. "Anarchism" from the Encyclopædia Britannica ^ "Anarchism." The Shorter Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 2005. p. 14 "Anarchism is the view that a society without the state, or government, is both possible and desirable." ^ Sheehan, Sean. Anarchism, London: Reaktion Books Ltd., 2004. p. 85 ^ "as many anarchists have stressed, it is not government as such that they find objectionable, but the hierarchical forms of government associated with the nation state". Judith Suissa. Anarchism and Education: a Philosophical Perspective. Routledge. New York. 2006. p. 7 ^ a b "IAF principles". International of Anarchist Federations. Archived from the original on 5 January 2012. The IAF–IFA fights for : the abolition of all forms of authority whether economical, political, social, religious, cultural or sexual. ^ "That is why Anarchy, when it works to destroy authority in all its aspects, when it demands the abrogation of laws and the abolition of the mechanism that serves to impose them, when it refuses all hierarchical organisation and preaches free agreement – at the same time strives to maintain and enlarge the precious kernel of social customs without which no human or animal society can exist." Peter Kropotkin. Anarchism: its philosophy and ideal ^ "anarchists are opposed to irrational (e.g., illegitimate) authority, in other words, hierarchy – hierarchy being the institutionalisation of authority within a society." "B.1 Why are anarchists against authority and hierarchy?" in An Anarchist FAQ ^ Malatesta, Errico. "Towards Anarchism". MAN!. Los Angeles: International Group of San Francisco. OCLC 3930443. Archived from the original on 7 November 2012. Agrell, Siri (14 May 2007). "Working for The Man". The Globe and Mail. Archived from the original on 16 May 2007. Retrieved 14 April 2008. "Anarchism". Encyclopædia Britannica. Encyclopædia Britannica Premium Service. 2006. Archived from the original on 14 December 2006. Retrieved 29 August 2006. "Anarchism". The Shorter Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy: 14. 2005. Anarchism is the view that a society without the state, or government, is both possible and desirable. The following sources cite anarchism as a political philosophy: Mclaughlin, Paul (2007). Anarchism and Authority. Aldershot: Ashgate. p. 59. ISBN 978-0754661962. Johnston, R. (2000). The Dictionary of Human Geography. Cambridge: Blackwell Publishers. p. 24. ISBN 0-631-20561-6. ^ a b Slevin, Carl. "Anarchism." The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Politics. Ed. Iain McLean and Alistair McMillan. Oxford University Press, 2003. ^ "Anarchists do reject the state, as we will see. But to claim that this central aspect of anarchism is definitive is to sell anarchism short."Anarchism and Authority: A Philosophical Introduction to Classical Anarchism by Paul McLaughlin. AshGate. 2007. p. 28 ^ Murray Bookchin (1982). The Ecology of Freedom: The Emergence and Dissolution of Hierarchy. Palo Alto, California: Cheshire Books. p. 3. "My use of the word hierarchy in the subtitle of this work is meant to be provocative. There is a strong theoretical need to contrast hierarchy with the more widespread use of the words class and State; careless use of these terms can produce a dangerous simplification of social reality. To use the words hierarchy, class, and State interchangeably, as many social theorists do, is insidious and obscurantist. This practice, in the name of a "classless" or "libertarian" society, could easily conceal the existence of hierarchical relationships and a hierarchical sensibility, both of which-even in the absence of economic exploitation or political coercion-would serve to perpetuate unfreedom." ^ Paul McLaughlin (2007). Anarchism and Authority: A Philosophical Introduction to Classical Anarchism. AshGate. p. 1. "Authority is defined in terms of the right to exercise social control (as explored in the "sociology of power") and the correlative duty to obey (as explored in the "philosophy of practical reason"). Anarchism is distinguished, philosophically, by its scepticism towards such moral relations – by its questioning of the claims made for such normative power – and, practically, by its challenge to those "authoritative" powers which cannot justify their claims and which are therefore deemed illegitimate or without moral foundation." ^ Emma Goldman. "What it Really Stands for Anarchy" in Anarchism and Other Essays. "Anarchism, then, really stands for the liberation of the human mind from the dominion of religion; the liberation of the human body from the dominion of property; liberation from the shackles and restraint of government. Anarchism stands for a social order based on the free grouping of individuals for the purpose of producing real social wealth; an order that will guarantee to every human being free access to the earth and full enjoyment of the necessities of life, according to individual desires, tastes, and inclinations." ^ Benjamin Tucker. Individual Liberty. Individualist anarchist Benjamin Tucker defined anarchism as opposition to authority, as follows: "They found that they must turn either to the right or to the left, – follow either the path of Authority or the path of Liberty. Marx went one way; Warren and Proudhon the other. Thus were born State Socialism and Anarchism ... Authority, takes many shapes, but, broadly speaking, her enemies divide themselves into three classes: first, those who abhor her both as a means and as an end of progress, opposing her openly, avowedly, sincerely, consistently, universally; second, those who profess to believe in her as a means of progress, but who accept her only so far as they think she will subserve their own selfish interests, denying her and her blessings to the rest of the world; third, those who distrust her as a means of progress, believing in her only as an end to be obtained by first trampling upon, violating, and outraging her. These three phases of opposition to Liberty are met in almost every sphere of thought and human activity. representatives of the first are seen in the Catholic Church and the Russian autocracy; of the second, in the Protestant Church and the Manchester school of politics and political economy; of the third, in the atheism of Gambetta and the socialism of Karl Marx." ^ Ward, Colin (1966). "Anarchism as a Theory of Organization". Archived from the original on 25 March 2010. Retrieved 1 March 2010. ^ Anarchist historian George Woodcock report of Mikhail Bakunin's anti-authoritarianism and shows opposition to both state and non-state forms of authority as follows: "All anarchists deny authority; many of them fight against it." (p. 9) ... Bakunin did not convert the League's central committee to his full program, but he did persuade them to accept a remarkably radical recommendation to the Berne Congress of September 1868, demanding economic equality and implicitly attacking authority in both Church and State." ^ Brown, L. Susan (2002). "Anarchism as a Political Philosophy of Existential Individualism: Implications for Feminism". The Politics of Individualism: Liberalism, Liberal Feminism and Anarchism. Black Rose Books Ltd. Publishing. p. 106. ^ Sylvan, Richard (1995). "Anarchism". In Goodwin, Robert E.; Pettit, Philip (eds.). A Companion to Contemporary Political Philosophy. Blackwell Publishing. p. 231. ^ Ostergaard, Geoffrey. "Anarchism". The Blackwell Dictionary of Modern Social Thought. Blackwell Publishing. p. 14. ^ Kropotkin, Peter (2002). Anarchism: A Collection of Revolutionary Writings. Courier Dover Publications. p. 5. ISBN 0-486-41955-X. R.B. Fowler (1972). "The Anarchist Tradition of Political Thought". Western Political Quarterly. University of Utah. 25 (4): 738–52. doi:10.2307/446800. JSTOR 446800. ^ Brooks, Frank H. (1994). The Individualist Anarchists: An Anthology of Liberty (1881–1908). Transaction Publishers. p. xi. ISBN 1-56000-132-1. Usually considered to be an extreme left-wing ideology, anarchism has always included a significant strain of radical individualism, from the hyperrationalism of Godwin, to the egoism of Stirner, to the libertarians and anarcho-capitalists of today ^ Joseph Kahn (2000). "Anarchism, the Creed That Won't Stay Dead; The Spread of World Capitalism Resurrects a Long-Dormant Movement". The New York Times (5 August). Colin Moynihan (2007). "Book Fair Unites Anarchists. In Spirit, Anyway". New York Times (16 April). ^ Post-left anarcho-communist Bob Black after analysing insurrectionary anarcho-communist Luigi Galleani's view on anarcho-communism went as far as saying that "communism is the final fulfillment of individualism.... The apparent contradiction between individualism and communism rests on a misunderstanding of both.... Subjectivity is also objective: the individual really is subjective. It is nonsense to speak of 'emphatically prioritizing the social over the individual'.... You may as well speak of prioritizing the chicken over the egg. Anarchy is a 'method of individualization'. It aims to combine the greatest individual development with the greatest communal unity."Bob Black. Nightmares of Reason. ^ "Modern Communists are more individualistic than Stirner. To them, not merely religion, morality, family and State are spooks, but property also is no more than a spook, in whose name the individual is enslaved – and how enslaved!...Communism thus creates a basis for the liberty and Eigenheit of the individual. I am a Communist because I am an Individualist. Fully as heartily the Communists concur with Stirner when he puts the word take in place of demand – that leads to the dissolution of property, to expropriation. Individualism and Communism go hand in hand." [1]Max Baginski. "Stirner: The Ego and His Own" on Mother Earth. Vol. 2. No. 3 May 1907 ^ "This stance puts him squarely in the libertarian socialist tradition and, unsurprisingly, (Benjamin) Tucker referred to himself many times as a socialist and considered his philosophy to be "Anarchistic socialism." "An Anarchist FAQby Various Authors ^ "Because revolution is the fire of our will and a need of our solitary minds; it is an obligation of the libertarian aristocracy. To create new ethical values. To create new aesthetic values. To communalize material wealth. To individualize spiritual wealth." [2]Renzo Novatore. Toward the Creative Nothing ^ Skirda, Alexandre. Facing the Enemy: A History of Anarchist Organization from Proudhon to May 1968. AK Press, 2002, p. 191. ^ Catalan historian Xavier Diez reports that the Spanish individualist anarchist press was widely read by members of anarcho-communist groups and by members of the anarcho-syndicalist trade union CNT. There were also the cases of prominent individualist anarchists such as Federico Urales and Miguel Gimenez Igualada who were members of the CNT and J. Elizalde who was a founding member and first secretary of the Iberian Anarchist Federation. Xavier Diez. El anarquismo individualista en España: 1923–1938. ISBN 978-84-96044-87-6 ^ Within the synthesist anarchist organization, the Fédération Anarchiste, there existed an individualist anarchist tendency alongside anarcho-communist and anarchosyndicalist currents. Individualist anarchists participating inside the Fédération Anarchiste included Charles-Auguste Bontemps, Georges Vincey and André Arru. "Pensée et action des anarchistes en France : 1950–1970" by Cédric GUÉRIN ^ In Italy in 1945, during the Founding Congress of the Italian Anarchist Federation, there was a group of individualist anarchists led by Cesare Zaccaria who was an important anarchist of the time.Cesare Zaccaria (19 August 1897 – October 1961) by Pier Carlo Masini and Paul Sharkey ^ ""Resiting the Nation State, the pacifist and anarchist tradition" by Geoffrey Ostergaard". Ppu.org.uk. 1945-08-06. Retrieved 2010-09-20. ^ George Woodcock. Anarchism: A History of Libertarian Ideas and Movements (1962) ^ Fowler, R.B. "The Anarchist Tradition of Political Thought." The Western Political Quarterly, Vol. 25, No. 4. (December 1972), pp. 743–44. ^ Nettlau, Max (1996). A Short History of Anarchism. Freedom Press. p. 162. ISBN 0-900384-89-1. ^ Daniel Guérin. Anarchism: From Theory to Practice. "At the end of the century in France, Sebastien Faure took up a word originated in 1858 by one Joseph Déjacque to make it the title of a journal, Le Libertaire. Today the terms 'anarchist' and 'libertarian' have become interchangeable." ^ Perlin, Terry M. (1979). Contemporary Anarchism. Transaction Publishers. p. 40. ISBN 0-87855-097-6. ^ Noam Chomsky; Carlos Peregrín Otero (2004). Language and Politics. AK Press. p. 739. ^ Ward, Colin. Anarchism: A Very Short Introduction. Oxford University Press 2004 p. 62 Goodway, David. Anarchists Seed Beneath the Snow. Liverpool Press. 2006, p. 4 MacDonald, Dwight & Wreszin, Michael. Interviews with Dwight Macdonald. University Press of Mississippi, 2003. p. 82 Bufe, Charles. The Heretic's Handbook of Quotations. See Sharp Press, 1992. p. iv Gay, Kathlyn. Encyclopedia of Political Anarchy. ABC-CLIO / University of Michigan, 2006, p. 126 Woodcock, George. Anarchism: A History of Libertarian Ideas and Movements. Broadview Press, 2004. (Uses the terms interchangeably, such as on p. 10) Skirda, Alexandre. Facing the Enemy: A History of Anarchist Organization from Proudhon to May 1968. AK Press 2002. p. 183. Fernandez, Frank. Cuban Anarchism. The History of a Movement. See Sharp Press, 2001, p. 9. ^ Compare Harper, Douglas. "legitimate". Online Etymology Dictionary. ^ Kant, Immanuel (1798). "Grundzüge der Schilderung des Charakters der Menschengattung". In Anthropologie in pragmatischer Hinsicht. AA: VII, s.330. ^ Louden, Robert B., ed. (2006). Kant: Anthropology from a Pragmatic Point of View. Cambridge University Press. p. 235. ^ Gowdy, John M. (1998). Limited Wants, Unlimited Means: A Reader on Hunter-Gatherer Economics and the Environment. St Louis: Island Press. p. 342. ISBN 1-55963-555-X. ^ Dahlberg, Frances (1975). Woman the Gatherer. London: Yale University Press. ISBN 0-300-02989-6. ^ Graeber, David (2004). Fragments of an Anarchist Anthropology (PDF). Chicago: Prickly Paradigm Press. ISBN 0-9728196-4-9. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2008-11-18. ^ Erdal, D.; Whiten, A. (1994). "On human egalitarianism: an evolutionary product of Machiavellian status escalation?". Current Anthropology. 35 (2): 175–183. doi:10.1086/204255. ^ Erdal, D. and A. Whiten 1996. Egalitarianism and Machiavellian intelligence in human evolution. In P. Mellars and K. Gibson (eds), Modelling the early human mind. Cambridge: McDonald Institute Monographs. ^ Christopher Boehm (2001), Hierarchy in the Forest: The Evolution of Egalitarian Behavior, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. ^ Graeber, David (2004). Fragments of an anarchist anthropology (2nd pr. ed.). Chicago: Prickly Paradigm Press. ISBN 978-0972819640. ^ Clastres, Pierre (1989). Society Against the State: Essays in Political Anthropology. Robert Hurley; Abe Stein (translators). New York: Zone Books. ISBN 0-942299-01-9. ^ Scott, James (2010). The Art of Not Being Governed. Yale University Press. ISBN 0300169175. ^ Leeson, Peter (2014). "Pirates, Prisoners, and Preliterates: Anarchic Context and the Private Enforcement of Law" (PDF). European Journal of Law and Economics. 37 (3): 365–379. ^ Zerzan, John (2002). Running on Emptiness: The Pathology of Civilization. Feral House. ISBN 0-922915-75-X. ^ Shepard, Paul (1996). Traces of an Omnivore. Island Press. ISBN 1-55963-431-6. ^ "The Consequences of Domestication and Sedentism by Emily Schultz, et al". Primitivism.com. Retrieved 2012-01-30. ^ "Seven Lies About Civilization, Ran Prieur". Greenanarchy.org. Archived from the original on 2009-10-02. Retrieved 2012-01-30. ^ Industrial Society and Its Future, Theodore Kaczynski ^ "The Putney Debates, The Forum at the Online Library of Liberty". Source: Sir William Clarke, Puritanism and Liberty, being the Army Debates (1647–9) from the Clarke Manuscripts with Supplementary Documents, selected and edited with an Introduction A.S.P. Woodhouse, foreword by A.D. Lindsay (University of Chicago Press, 1951).] ^ "Chapter XIII". Oregonstate.edu. Archived from the original on 2010-05-28. Retrieved 2012-01-30. ^ Thomas Carlyle. The French Revolution. ^ "Duke d'Aiguillon". Justice.gc.ca. 2007-11-14. Archived from the original on 2011-07-06. Retrieved 2012-01-30. ^ "Revolution in Search of Authority". Victorianweb.org. 2001-10-26. Retrieved 2012-01-30. ^ Jamaica: Description of the Principal Persons there (about 1720, Sir Nicholas Lawes, Governor) in Caribbeana Vol. III (1911), edited by Vere Langford Oliver ^ Yekelchyk 2007, p 80. ^ Charles Townshend; John Bourne; Jeremy Black (1997). The Oxford Illustrated History of Modern War. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-820427-2. ^ Emma Goldman (2003). My Disillusionment in Russia. Courier Dover Publications. p. 61. ISBN 0-486-43270-X. ^ Edward R. Kantowicz (1999). The Rage of Nations. Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing. p. 173. ISBN 0-8028-4455-3. ^ Declaration Of The Revolutionary Insurgent Army Of The Ukraine (Makhnovist). Peter Arshinov, History of the Makhnovist Movement (1918–1921), 1923. Black & Red, 1974 ^ Footman, David. Civil War In Russia Frederick A.Praeger 1961, p287 ^ Guerin, Daniel. Anarchism: Theory and Practice ^ Dolgoff, Sam (1974). The Anarchist Collectives: Workers' Self-management in the Spanish Revolution, 1936-1939. Black Rose Books Ltd. ISBN 9780919618206. ^ Central Intelligence Agency (2011). "Somalia". The World Factbook. Langley, Virginia: Central Intelligence Agency. Retrieved 2011-10-05. ^ Andre Le Sage (2005-06-01). "Stateless Justice in Somalia" (PDF). Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-01-18. Retrieved 2009-06-26. ^ Milani, Giuseppe; Selvi, Giovanna (1996). Tra Rio e Riascolo: piccola storia del territorio libero di Cospaia. Lama di San Giustino: Associazione genitori oggi. p. 18. OCLC 848645655. ^ Earle, Peter C. (August 4, 2012). "Anarchy in the Aachen". Mises Institute. Retrieved September 7, 2017. External links[edit] Look up anarchy in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Emma Goldman, Anarchism and Other Essays On the Steppes of Central Asia, by Matt Stone. Online version of book, hosted by Anarchism.net. "Who Needs Government? Pirates, Collapsed States, and the Possibility of Anarchy", August 2007 issue of Cato Unbound focusing on Somali anarchy. "Historical Examples of Anarchy without Chaos", a list of essays hosted by royhalliday.home.mingspring.com. Anarchy Is Order. Principles, propositions and discussions for land and freedom. Brandon's Anarchy Page, classic essays and modern discussions. Online since 1994. Anarchism Collection from the Rare Book and Special Collections Division at the Library of Congress. v t e Anarchism Concepts Anarchy Anarchist Black Cross Anationalism Anti-authoritarianism Anti-capitalism Anti-militarism Autonomous social center Autonomous zone Permanent Temporary Black bloc Classless society Class struggle Commune Human community Model of government Community unionism Consensus democracy Conscientious objector Decentralization Deep ecology Direct action Direct democracy Especifismo Expropriation Free association Free love Freethought Grassroots Horizontalidad Individualism Individual reclamation Industrial unionism Isocracy Law Participism Parecon Parpolity Prefigurative politics Proletarian internationalism Propaganda of the deed Rewilding Security culture Social revolution Social center Somatherapy Stateless society Squatting Issues Animal rights Capitalism Anarcho-capitalism Criticism Cryptography Definition Education Love and sex Marxism Nationalism Religion Orthodox Judaism Violence Schools of thought Classical Individualist Egoist Illegalist Existentialist Philosophical Mutualist Social Collectivist Communist Magonist Post-classical Feminist Green Naturist Primitivist Social ecology Independence Insurrectionary Pacifist Religious Christian Buddhist Jewish Without adjectives Contemporary Black Free-market Agorism Capitalist Left-wing Postcolonial Post-anarchist Post-left Queer Types of federation Affinity group Anarcho-syndicalism Platformism Synthesis anarchism Union of egoists Economics Communization Cooperative Cost the limit of price Decentralized planning Economic democracy General strike Give-away shop Gift economy Market abolitionism Mutual aid Participatory economics Really Really Free Market Refusal of work Social ownership Wage slavery Workers' self-management Culture A las Barricadas Anarchist Bookfair Anarcho-punk Archives Culture jamming DIY ethic Films Freeganism Glossary History Independent Media Center Infoshop "The Internationale" "Land and liberty" "No gods, no masters" Popular education "Property is theft!" Radical cheerleading Radical environmentalism Squatting Symbolism By region Africa Algeria Argentina Australia Azerbaijan Bolivia Brazil Canada Chile China Cuba Czech Republic Ecuador Egypt France French Guiana Germany Greece India Iceland Ireland Israel Italy Japan Korea Mexico Monaco New Zealand Poland Puerto Rico Romania Russia Serbia Singapore South Africa Spain Sweden Turkey United Kingdom United States Venezuela Vietnam Lists Anarcho-punk bands Books Communities Fictional characters Films Jewish anarchists Love and sex Musicians Periodicals Related topics Anarchy (international relations) Anti-corporate activism Anti-consumerism Anti-fascism Anti-globalization movement Anti-racism Anti-speciesism Anti-statism Anti-war movement Autarchism Autonomism Communism Council Counter-economics Critical theory Environmentalism Epistemological anarchism Labour movement Libertarian municipalism Feminism Radical Libertarianism Left- Marxism Libertarian Philosophy Neozapatismo Revolution Social Socialism Libertarian Revolutionary Syndicalism Situationism Voluntaryism Category Outline Portal Anarchism portal Politics portal Society portal Authority control GND: 4142364-1 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Anarchy&oldid=945675171" Categories: Anarchist theory Economic systems Hidden categories: Articles with short description Articles containing Spanish-language text Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? Aragonés Az?rbaycanca ?????????? Bikol Central ????????? Boarisch Bosanski Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ?????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français Galego ??? ?????? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? Kab?y? ??????? ??????? Kreyòl ayisyen Kurdî Latina Latviešu Lietuvi? Lumbaart ?????????? ????????? N?huatl Nederlands ????? ???? ??? Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk ?????? Polski Român? ??????? Sardu Scots Shqip Sicilianu ????? Simple English ???? Slovenš?ina Soomaaliga ????? ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska Tagalog ???????/tatarça ?????? ?????????? Vèneto ?? ?????? Yorùbá Žemait?ška ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 15 March 2020, at 13:52 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Moses@John.com
