Bambara Wikipedia - Wikipedia Bambara Wikipedia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Bambara Wikipedia Type of site Internet encyclopedia Owner Wikimedia Foundation URL bm.wikipedia.org Commercial No Registration Optional The Bambara Wikipedia is the edition of Wikipedia in the Bambara language, spoken in Mali, Burkina Faso and Senegal. This edition of Wikipedia contains 661 articles. Contents 1 History 2 Notes 3 References 4 External links History[edit] The Wikipedia was started in the beginning of 2005, along with the Wolof Wikipedia and the Fula Wikipedia. Kasper Souren, a Dutchman who worked with Geekcorps, established this Wikipedia while working in a mission in Mali.[1] In December 2007 the Bambara Wikipedia had 142 articles and the Wikipedia in Fula had 28 articles.[1] According to Souren, he was volunteering in Mali in 2005 when he first encountered the Bambara language.[2] Souren wrote in a report to an open source conference a Geekcorps Mali volunteer had created a side project where a person who wrote for the Wikipedia received $1 U.S. per article.[1] Souren went to Bamako and met people at a community center. He paid each person willing to write an article $1 U.S. The authors had no internet connections and no Wikipedia usernames. They wrote articles in Microsoft Word and gave the files to Souren. Souren uploaded each article and credited the authors. Souren wrote "I can’t understand 100 percent of what they wrote, but I could estimate that it was right. It is a Wikipedia anyway, so I hope they can correct it."[2] The total expenses of the project amounted to fewer than $100 U.S.[1] In regards to the payment, Ndesanjo Macha, a Wikipedian who speaks Swahili, argued that it's unnecessary to pay editors for their efforts, and he believed he was speaking for everyone in Africa. Noam Cohen of The New York Times wrote "Most of the people who have heard about Mr. Souren’s decision to pay for entries lauded his goal but questioned his tactics, saying that they undercut the Wikipedia spirit, and that, ultimately, a Bambara Wikipedia would work only if there was a voluntary community to support it."[2] This project resulted in the partial translation of the interfaces of the Bambara and Fula Wikipedias and the creation of some articles for those Wikipedias. Souren wrote that after 2005 the Bambara and Fula Wikipedias had "only sparse activity".[1] In December 2007 the Bambara Wikipedia had 142 articles and the Wikipedia in Fula had 28 articles.[1] In 2013 Valentin Vydrin, author of "Bamana Reference Corpus (BRC)", wrote that "The Bambara Wikipedia counts a couple of hundred entries, most of them rudimentary and often written without any respect for the rules of orthography."[3] Notes[edit] ^ a b c d e f Lih, p. 158. Partial preview of relevant content, starting with "Nevertheless, one of those kick-start seed communities in Africa[...]" ^ a b c Cohen, Noam. "African Languages Grow as a Wikipedia Presence." (Print) The New York Times. August 26, 2006. Retrieved on April 5, 2014. ^ Vydrin, Valentin. "Bamana Reference Corpus (BRC)." Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences. Elsevier. Volume 95, 25 October 2013, Pages 75–80. Available at ScienceDirect. References[edit] Lih, Andrew. The Wikipedia Revolution: How a Bunch of Nobodies Created the World's Greatest Encyclopedia. Hyperion, New York City. 2009. First Edition. ISBN 978-1-4013-0371-6 (alkaline paper). External links[edit] Mali portal Bambara edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (in Bambara) Bambara Wikipedia (Mobile) Geekcorps Mali (Archive) v t e List of Wikipedias by article count 6,000,000+ English 5,000,000+ Cebuano 3,000,000+ Swedish 2,000,000+ German French Dutch 1,000,000+ Russian Italian Spanish Polish Waray Vietnamese Japanese Chinese Arabic Portuguese Ukrainian 500,000+ Persian Catalan Serbian Norwegian (bokmål/riksmål) Indonesian 200,000+ Korean Finnish Hungarian Serbo-Croatian Czech Romanian Basque Turkish Malay Esperanto Armenian Bulgarian Hebrew Danish Chechen Southern Min Slovak Kazakh Minangkabau Croatian Estonian 100,000+ Lithuanian Belarusian Greek Southern Azerbaijani Slovene Galician Azerbaijani Simple English Norwegian (nynorsk) Urdu Hindi Thai Georgian Uzbek Latin Tamil Volapük Egyptian Arabic Welsh Macedonian Tajik Latvian Asturian 50,000+ Malagasy Occitan Tagalog Tatar Afrikaans Kyrgyz Bosnian Albanian Newar Cantonese Telugu Bengali Belarusian (Taraškievica) Breton Piedmontese Malayalam Javanese Luxembourgish Haitian Scots Marathi Swahili Irish Low Saxon Bashkir Silesian 20,000+ Western Punjabi Icelandic Chuvash West Frisian Sundanese Burmese Lombard Aragonese Yoruba Nepali Punjabi Gujarati Ido Bavarian Sicilian Bishnupriya Manipuri Alemannic Kurdish (Kurmanji) Kannada Kurdish (Sorani) Venetian Interlingua Quechua 10,000+ Acehnese Amharic Buginese Classical Chinese Eastern Min Faroese Mongolian Neapolitan Samogitian Scottish Gaelic Sinhalese Walloon Odia Yiddish Banyumasan Upper Sorbian Mazandarani Maithili Megrelian Limburgish Wu Sakha Sanskrit Ilokano Ossetian Hill Mari Emilian-Romagnol Sindhi Meadow Mari Pashto Zazaki Hakka Navajo Central Bicolano North Frisian 5,000+ Fiji Hindi Tarantino Kapampangan Northern Sotho Northern Sami Maori Shan Nahuatl Dutch Low Saxon Rusyn Khmer Bihari West Flemish Gan Crimean Tatar Tibetan Sardinian Vepsian Somali Gilaki Corsican Turkmen Võro Northern Luri Komi Erzya Kashubian 2,000+ Abkhazian Assamese Aymara Balinese Interlingue Manx Norman Saterland Frisian Udmurt Uyghur Zeelandic Lezgian Shona Cornish Ladino Picard Mirandese Konkani Romansh Guarani Komi-Permyak Ligurian Maltese Gorontalo Friulian Lower Sorbian Franco-Provençal Lingala Anglo-Saxon Divehi Chavacano Extremaduran Doteli Lao Kabyle Ripuarian Gagauz Lingua Franca Nova Hawaiian Livvi-Karelian Pangasinan Pali Avar Buryat Palatinate German Kalmyk Karachay-Balkar Banjar Hausa Santali 1,000+ Tulu Papiamentu Karakalpak Zhuang Pennsylvania German Kinyarwanda Tongan Novial Greenlandic Aramaic Jamaican Kabardian Tuvan Tok Pisin Tetum Kabiye Kikuyu Nauruan Igbo Bislama Aromanian Lak Lojban Tahitian Moksha Kongo Luganda Wolof Sranan Zulu 500+ Cherokee Latgalian Samoan Ingush Oromo Xhosa Norfolk Romani Old Church Slavonic Bambara Tswana Kirundi Cheyenne Twi Atikamekw Tumbuka Tsonga Sesotho Gothic Akan 200+ Chamorro Pontic Swati Fijian Adyghe Inuktitut Chichewa Ewe Kashmiri Inupiak Venda Sango Fula Dzongkha 100+ Tigrinya Cree 10+ Dinka 0+ Ndonga Choctaw Kuanyama Marshallese Hiri Motu Sichuan Yi Afar Muscogee Herero Kanuri Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bambara_Wikipedia&oldid=934415130" Categories: Wikipedias by language Bambara language Internet in Africa Internet properties established in 2005 African encyclopedias Hidden categories: Articles with Bambara-language sources (bm) Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? ????? Español Euskara ????? Français ??? Português Tagalog ?????????? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 6 January 2020, at 11:48 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Emil@Matthew.in
