Battle of Glorieta Pass - Wikipedia Battle of Glorieta Pass From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search 1862 battle in the American Civil War Battle of Glorieta Pass Part of the New Mexico Campaign, American Civil War Depiction of the Battle of Glorieta Pass by Roy Anderson Date March 26–28, 1862 Location New Mexico Territory; modern-day Santa Fe County and San Miguel County, New Mexico Result Union victory[1][2] Belligerents  United States (Union)  Confederate States (Confederacy) Commanders and leaders John P. Slough John M. Chivington Charles L. Pyron William R. Scurry Henry Hopkins Sibley Strength 1,300: 2nd New Mexico Volunteer Infantry 1st Colorado Infantry 2nd Colorado Infantry 1st Cavalry Regiment 2nd Cavalry Regiment 3rd Cavalry Regiment 1,100: 2nd Texas Mounted Rifles 4th Texas Mounted Rifles 5th Texas Mounted Rifles 7th Texas Mounted Rifles Casualties and losses Apache Canyon 5 killed 14 wounded 3 missing[3] Glorieta Pass 46 killed[4] 64 wounded 15 captured Total: 51 killed 78 wounded 15 captured 3 missing 147 total [5] Apache Canyon 4 killed 20 wounded 75 captured[6] Glorieta Pass 46 killed[7] 60 wounded 17 captured Total: 50 killed 80 wounded 92 captured 222 total v t e Sibley's New Mexico Campaign Valverde Glorieta Pass Albuquerque Peralta v t e Engagements in Union New Mexico Glorieta Pass Albuquerque Peralta Big Bug Pecos River Canyon de Chelly The Battle of Glorieta Pass, fought from March 26–28, 1862, in the northern New Mexico Territory, was the decisive battle of the New Mexico Campaign during the American Civil War. Dubbed the "Gettysburg of the West" (a term that "serves the novelist better than the historian")[8] by some authors, it was intended as the decisive blow by Confederate forces to break the Union possession of the West along the base of the Rocky Mountains. It was fought at Glorieta Pass in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains in what is now New Mexico, and was an important event in the history of the New Mexico Territory in the American Civil War. There was a skirmish on March 26 between advance elements from each army, with the main battle occurring on March 28. Although the Confederates were able to push the Union force back through the pass, they had to retreat when their supply train was destroyed and most of their horses and mules killed or driven off. Eventually the Confederates had to withdraw entirely from the territory back into Confederate Arizona and then Texas. Glorieta Pass thus represented the climax of the campaign. Contents 1 New Mexico Campaign 2 Opposing forces 2.1 Union (North) 2.2 Confederate 3 Battle 3.1 Apache Canyon 3.2 Glorieta Pass 3.2.1 Johnson's Ranch 4 Controversy 5 Aftermath 6 Battlefield preservation 7 Depictions in popular culture 8 Notes 9 References 10 Further reading 11 External links New Mexico Campaign[edit] Main article: New Mexico Campaign The lower portion of the New Mexico Territory had been largely neglected by both the federal government and the territorial government in Santa Fe. As a result, Confederate sympathy was strong, in hopes of receiving better treatment by the new government. Following secession moves by residents, Confederate forces seized Mesilla and captured the federal troops there, who made a halfhearted attempt to retreat to Santa Fe. In early 1862 the Confederacy established the Confederate Arizona Territory, which included the southern halves of both modern Arizona and New Mexico. The territorial capital was at Mesilla, some 45 miles from El Paso and near today's major city of Las Cruces. The strategic goals were to gain access to the gold and silver mines of California and the Colorado Territory and the seaports in Southern California, and thus evade the Union naval blockade.[9][10] The commanders of the New Mexico Campaign were Confederate Brig. Gen. Henry Hopkins Sibley and Union Col. Edward Canby. Sibley attempted to capture Fort Craig, completely outmaneuvering Canby at the Battle of Valverde in February and driving him back into his fort, but failed to force Canby's surrender. Sibley then bypassed the fort and advanced north through the Rio Grande Valley, occupying Santa Fe on March 10. Canby remained at Fort Craig, hoping to cut Sibley's logistical support from Texas and awaiting reinforcements before he dared to take the offensive. Sibley made his headquarters at the abandoned Union storehouse at Albuquerque. In March Sibley sent a Confederate force of 200-300 Texans under the command of Maj. Charles L. Pyron on an advance expedition over the Glorieta Pass, a strategic location on the Santa Fe Trail at the southern tip of the Sangre de Cristo Mountains southeast of Santa Fe.[11] Control of the pass would allow the Confederates to advance onto the High Plains and make an assault on Fort Union, a Union stronghold on the route northward over Raton Pass. Sibley sent six companies under the command of Col. Tom Green to block the eastern end of Glorieta Pass, turning any Union defensive position in the Sangre de Cristos.[12] Opposing forces[edit] Union (North)[edit] Further information: Union order of battle Confederate[edit] Further information: Confederate order of battle Battle[edit] Battle of Glorieta Pass: actions on March 28   Confederate   Union The Confederates were led by[11] Charles L. Pyron and William Read Scurry. During the battle on March 26, Pyron had his battalion of the 2nd Texas Mounted Rifles,[13] four companies of the 5th Texas Mounted Rifles under Maj. John Shropshire and two cannons. Scurry's force included nine companies of the 4th Texas Mounted Rifles under Maj. Henry Raguet, five companies of the 7th Texas Mounted Rifles under Maj. Powhatan Jordan and three additional cannons. The Union forces were led by Col. John P. Slough of the 1st Colorado Infantry, with units under the command of Maj. John M. Chivington. In the action on March 26, Chivington had three infantry companies and one mounted company of the 1st Colorado and a detachment of the 1st and 3rd U.S. Cavalry regiments.[14] During the main battle on the 28th, Slough commanded, in person, nine companies of the 1st Colorado, a detachment from the 1st, 2nd and 3rd U.S. Cavalry regiments and two artillery batteries.[15] Chivington commanded five companies of the 5th U.S. Infantry, one company from the 1st Colorado, James Hobart Ford's independent company from the 2nd Colorado and some New Mexico militiamen.[16] Prior to the battle Union forces performed a forced march from Denver, over Raton Pass, to Fort Union and then to Glorieta Pass, covering the distance of 400 miles in 14 days. Combat commenced shortly after their arrival at the battlefield, leaving them little time to recuperate.[17] Apache Canyon[edit] Action at Apache Canyon. Pyron's force of 300 camped at Apache Canyon, at one end of Glorieta Pass, leaving a picket post of 50 men at the summit of the pass. Chivington led 418 soldiers to the pass and, on the morning of March 26, moved out to attack. After noon Chivington's men captured the picket post and found the main force behind them. Chivington advanced on them, but their artillery fire threw him back. He regrouped, split his force to the two sides of the pass, caught the Confederates in a crossfire, and soon forced them to retire. Pyron retired about a mile and a half (about 2-1/2 kilometers) to a narrow section of the pass and formed a defensive line before Chivington's men appeared. The Union forces flanked Pyron's men again and punished them with enfilade fire. Pyron ordered another retreat, but the withdrawal of the artillery caused the Confederates to become disorganized and start fighting in separate clusters of men. Chivington ordered a mounted Colorado company to make a frontal charge against the artillery; this succeeded in capturing several Confederates and scattering the rest. Not knowing if Confederate reinforcements were nearby, Chivington then retired and went into camp at Kozlowski's Ranch to await Slough with the main body. His small victory was a morale boost for Slough's army.[18][19] No fighting occurred the next day, as reinforcements arrived for both sides. Scurry's troops arrived at 3:00 am on March 27, swelling the Confederate force to about 1,100 men and five cannons; as senior officer present, he took command of the entire Confederate force. Thinking that Slough would attack again and expecting Green to arrive in the Union rear at any time, Scurry chose to remain in place for the day, digging rifle pits.[20] Slough arrived early in the morning of March 28 with about 900 more men, bringing the Union strength to 1,300. Glorieta Pass[edit] Glorieta Pass battlefield. This photograph was taken in 1990 from Sharpshooter's Ridge, just north of Pigeon's Ranch. It was the location of the Union right flank during the last day's battle. Both Scurry and Slough decided to attack on March 28 and set out early to do so. Expecting the Confederates to remain in Apache Canyon, Slough sent Chivington with two infantry battalions, under Lewis and Wynkoop, out in a circling movement with orders to go hide out at Glorieta Pass and hit the Texans in the flank once Slough's main force had engaged their front.[21] Chivington did as ordered and his men waited above the pass for Slough and the enemy to arrive. However, instead of remaining at Apache Canyon as Slough had expected, Scurry advanced down the canyon more rapidly than Slough had anticipated. Scurry believed the Union force was retreating to Fort Union. He intended to attack them until Green could arrive. One cannon and a small guard was left at Johnson's Ranch, while the rest of the Confederate force—more than 1000 men—marched eastwards along the Santa Fe Trail.[22] When Slough found the Texans so far forward he launched an attack, hitting them about 11:00 am some half a mile from Pigeon's Ranch. A provisional battalion of four companies from the 1st Colorado, supported by both batteries, was commanded by Lt. Col. Samuel Tappan, who deployed his men across the trail.[23] The Confederates dismounted and formed a line across the canyon, but the terrain caused some companies to become intermingled.[24] Tappan was initially successful and held his ground for a half-hour, but the Confederates' numerical superiority enabled them to outflank Tappan's line by noon. The Union troops were thrown back in confusion but managed to take up position around the adobe ranch buildings.[25] Slough reformed his men several hundred yards closer to Pigeon's Ranch, with the four companies under Tappan and an artillery battery on a hill to the left, the other battery supported by two companies in the center across the road and the remaining two companies on the ridge to the right.[26] Scurry then launched a three-pronged attack. Pyron and Raguet were ordered to attack the Union right, Shropshire the Union left, with the remainder led by Scurry against the Union center, and the artillery firing in support.[27] The attack on the Union left was beaten back, with Shropshire killed. The attack on the center stalled, while the artillery was forced to withdraw after one cannon was disabled and a limber destroyed. The attack itself then stalled, with the Confederates fighting by squads "with a desperation unequaled by any engagement of the war."[28] At around 3:00 pm the Confederates outflanked the Union right, but Raguet was mortally wounded. From the ridge (thereafter known as "Sharpshooters Ridge"), Confederate riflemen started picking off the artillerymen and infantry below them. Scurry again pressed the Union center, and the Union position became untenable. Slough reluctantly ordered a retreat, and Tappan formed the companies on the left into a rear guard. Slough reformed his line a half-mile east of Pigeon's Ranch, where skirmishing continued until dusk. The Union men finally retreated to Kozlowski's Ranch, leaving the Confederates in possession of the battlefield. Johnson's Ranch[edit] With the sounds of battle echoing in the distance, Lt. Col. Manuel Chaves of the 2nd New Mexico Infantry, commander of the New Mexican volunteers, informed Maj. Chivington that his scouts had located the Confederate supply train at Johnson's Ranch. After watching the supply train for an hour, Chivington's force descended the slope and attacked, driving off or capturing the small guard with few casualties on either side.[29] They then looted and burned 80 supply wagons and spiked the cannon, either killing or driving off about 500 horses and mules before returning with their prisoners to Kozlowski's Ranch.[30] With no supplies to sustain his advance, Scurry had to retreat to Santa Fe, the first step on the long road back to San Antonio, Texas. Thanks to Chaves' assistance, the Federals had turned a defeat into victory and stopped further Confederate advances in the Southwest. Glorieta Pass was the turning point of the war in the New Mexico Territory. One of Chaves' scouts was Anastasio Duran. He was stationed with the Union Army at Fort Union and was a resident of Chaperito (or Chaparito), New Mexico. He was considered a "Comanchero" by U.S. Army officers and was renowned for his hunting skills. He was intimately familiar with the terrain. Duran was the lead scout who led Chivington's forces to attack behind Confederate lines at the Battle of Glorieta Pass.[31] Parts of the battlefield are preserved in Pecos National Historical Park. Controversy[edit] Many New Mexicans disputed the view that Chivington was the hero of Johnson's Ranch. Many Santa Fe residents credited James L. Collins, a Bureau of Indian Affairs official, who had suggested the roundabout attack on the supply train. Chivington had actually been sent out in hopes of making a flank attack, and the discovery of the supply train was a lucky accident. He was also accused of almost letting the opportunity slip by him. On January 23, 1864, the New Mexico Territorial Legislature adopted a resolution that did not mention Chivington and instead asked President Lincoln to promote William H. Lewis and Asa B. Carey, both regular army officers, for "distinguished service" in the battle. On March 8 the Rio Abajo Press of Albuquerque complained about "Col. Chivington's strutting about in plumage stolen from Captain William H. Lewis" (it did not mention Carey). According to the newspaper editor, "Some one of the party" suggested the attack, which Chivington only agreed to after "two hours persuasion." Furthermore, Lewis had led the attack, while Chivington was "viewing the scene from afar".[32] A more serious charge made against Chivington was that if he had hurried to reinforce Slough as soon as he heard gunfire coming from Pigeon's Ranch, his 400 men might have been enough to win the battle for the Federals, especially if he had attacked Scurry's flank as he had been ordered.[33] Aftermath[edit] Battle of Glorieta Pass marker at the Cuerno Verde Rest Area, Colorado. In the end, the Battle of Glorieta Pass was consequential. First, despite the fact that the Confederates took the field, they were forced to retreat to Santa Fe due to the destruction of their supplies and eventually abandon New Mexico Territory.[34] Second, the battle at Glorieta foiled Sibley's plan to obtain his key objective: the capture of the major federal base at Fort Union. That would have broken federal resistance in New Mexico and compelled Union forces to retire north of Raton Pass and back into Colorado Territory.[35] In any case, the dream of a Confederate stronghold in the Southwest was impractical; New Mexico could not provide enough sustenance for any prolonged Confederate occupation.[36] Furthermore, the approach of the Federal "California Column" eastward through the New Mexico Territory during the summer of 1862 would have seriously jeopardized Confederate control of the region. Battlefield preservation[edit] Main article: Glorieta Pass Battlefield The battlefield in 2012. In 1987 two Confederate burial sites were discovered at Pigeon's Ranch. One was the solitary grave of Maj. John Samuel Shropshire, the other was a mass grave of 30 Confederates. Only Shropshire and five others could be positively identified[37] On August 5, 1990, Maj. Shropshire's remains were reburied next to his parents in his family's cemetery in Bourbon County, Kentucky. The remaining 30 Confederates were reinterred in the Santa Fe National Cemetery.[38] In 1993 the congressionally appointed Civil War Sites Advisory Commission issued its "Report on the Nation's Civil War Battlefields."[39] The commission was tasked with identifying the nation's historically significant Civil War sites, determining their importance and providing recommendations for their preservation to Congress. Of the roughly 10,500 actions of the U.S. Civil War,[40] 384 (3.7%) were identified by the commission as principal battles and rated according to their significance and threat of loss. The Battle of Glorieta Pass received the highest rating from the commission, priority I (class A). Class A battlefields are principal strategic operations having a direct impact on the course of the war. With this rating the commission placed Glorieta Pass on the same level as battles such as Gettysburg and Antietam. The priority I rating identified Glorieta Pass as being not only one of the most important, but also one of the most highly endangered battlefields in the country. Only ten other battlefields received the priority I (class A) rating. The commission recommended that Congress focus its preservation efforts on priority I, nationally significant battlefields.[41] Since 1993 portions of the Glorieta Pass Battlefield have become a unit of the National Park Service. The Glorieta Pass unit (Pigeon's Ranch) comprises roughly 20% of the total battlefield. The remaining 80% is in private ownership. Glorieta Pass Battlefield is managed by Pecos National Historical Park and supported by the Glorieta Battlefield Coalition, a non-profit citizens' organization.[42] The Civil War Trust (a division of the American Battlefield Trust) and its partners have acquired and preserved 19 acres (7.7 ha) of the Glorieta Pass battlefield.[43] The Glorieta Pass Battlefield is also designated as a National Historic Landmark.[44] Depictions in popular culture[edit] The 1966 Sergio Leone film The Good, the Bad and the Ugly refers obliquely to the battle, setting one scene during the post-battle retreat of Sibley's men. The battle is described in the 1999 historical novel Glorieta Pass[45] by P. G. Nagle.[46] The events at Johnson's Ranch are depicted in Elmer Kelton's 2009 novel, Many A River, with some changes to fit it to his plot. The journey of Scurry's Confederate and Slough's Union forces to the battleground as well as a detailed narrative of the fight is described in Tom Bensing's "Silas Soule, A Short, Eventful Life of Moral Courage." Notes[edit] ^ ABPP: Glorieta Pass ^ Civil War Trust: Battle of Glorieta Pass ^ Josephy, p. 81 ^ Colorado Volunteers in the Civil War: The New Mexico Campaign in 1862 – William Clarke Whitford. Internet Archive. p. 112. Retrieved March 28, 2015. Major Buckholts killed 1862. ^ Frazier, p. 225 ^ Frazier, p. 210 ^ "Battle of Glorieta Confederate Soldiers". Nm-scv.org. Archived from the original on March 28, 2015. Retrieved March 28, 2015. ^ Edrington, p. 4 ^ Frazier, p. 75 ^ Whitlock, pp. 60–61 ^ a b "GLORIETA, BATTLE OF | The Handbook of Texas Online| Texas State Historical Association (TSHA)". Tshaonline.org. Retrieved March 18, 2016. ^ Frazier, p. 199 ^ This battalion also included companies of Arizona Confederates. ^ Whitlock, p. 171 ^ Frazier, pp. 205, 215 ^ Whitlock, p. 188 ^ Hudnall, p. 291 ^ Josephy, pp. 79–81. ^ Frazier, pp. 208–210 ^ Frazier, pp. 211–212. ^ Frazier, p. 214 ^ Frazier, pp. 213–214. ^ Whitlock, p. 190 ^ Frazier, p. 216 ^ [1][dead link] ^ Whitlock, p. 200. ^ Frazier, p. 219. ^ Whitlock, p. 201 ^ Three Confederates were killed and several wounded, including the regimental chaplain; two officers and 15 men were captured. The only Union casualty was one man injured by flying debris from the exploding ammunition wagons. Whitlock pp. 206–207. ^ Frazier, p. 226 ^ This information is compiled from the oral history of the Duran family of New Mexico, recorded in 1976 by L J Bonney, Esq. and from documents of the era in possession of the Duran family. One such document was the Fort Union commander's written commendation thanking Duran for his service in the battle and naming him the most proficient scout for the Union Army in the New Mexico. Note 1: Duran's family stated that he also voluntarily chose to join the war on the Union side because it included a war against Texas. Texas was considered enemy territory at this time by many native New Mexicans (Indio-Hispano and American Indian). Note 2: Much native New Mexican history before 1900, both Indio-Hispano and American Indian, not related to Anglo events, is of an oral nature. ^ Keleher, pp. 180–182. ^ One reason Chivington failed to come was due to an acoustic shadow that prevented him from hearing sounds from the battle. Whitlock, p. 205. ^ Frazier, p. 230. ^ Josephy, pp. 91–92. ^ Whitlock, pp. 240–241 ^ [2] Archived October 6, 2014, at the Wayback Machine ^ Los Angeles Times ^ [3] Archived March 15, 2008, at the Wayback Machine ^ Dyer.[page needed] ^ Civil War Sites Advisory Commission Report on the Nation's Civil War Battlefields. Washington, DC: The National Park Service, 1993. ^ ???????????????????????????. "???????????????????????????: ?????". Glorietapass.org. Archived from the original on May 18, 2008. Retrieved March 28, 2015. ^ [4] American Battlefield Trust "Saved Land" webpage. Accessed May 23, 2018. ^ "Pecos National Historical Park". nps.gov. ^ Nagle, P. G. Glorieta Pass. Cedar Crest, New Mexico: Book View Cafe, 2011. ISBN 978-1611380491 ^ Nagle References[edit] National Park Service battle description The Battle of Glorieta Pass from the University of San Diego history department Dyer, Frederick (1908). A Compendium of the War of the Rebellion. Des Moines, Iowa: The Dyer Publishing Company. Edrington, Thomas (1998). The Battle of Glorieta Pass: A Gettysburg in the West, March 26–28, 1862. University of New Mexico Press. ISBN 0-8263-1896-7. Frazier, Donald S. (1995). Blood and Treasure: The Confederate Empire in the Southwest. College Station, Texas: Texas A & M University Press. ISBN 978-0-89096-639-6. Hudnall, Ken (2005). Spirits of the Border IV: The History and Mystery of New Mexico. El Paso, Texas: Omega Press. ISBN 0-9754923-4-9. Josephy, Jr., Alvin M. (1991). The Civil War in the American West. New York: Alfred A. Knopf. ISBN 0-394-56482-0. Keleher, William A. (1952). Turmoil in New Mexico, 1846–1868. Albuquerque, New Mexico: University of New Mexico Press. ISBN 0-8263-0631-4. Nagle, P. G. (1999). Glorieta Pass [a novel]. New York: Forge. ISBN 0-312-86548-1. Whitlock, Flint (2006). Distant Bugles, Distant Drums: The Union Response to the Confederate Invasion of New Mexico. Boulder, Colorado: University Press of Colorado. ISBN 978-0-87081-835-6. Civil War Sites Advisory Commission Report on the Nation's Civil War Battlefields. Washington, DC: The National Park Service. 1993. Further reading[edit] Alberts, Don. The Battle of Glorieta: Union Victory in the West. Texas A&M University Press, 1996. ISBN 0-89096-825-X. Scott, Robert. "Glory, Glory, Glorieta: The Gettysburg of the West." Johnson Books, 1992. ISBN 1-55566-098-3. Simmons, Mark. "The Battle at Valley's Ranch: First account of the Gettysburg of the West, 1862." San Pedro Press, 1987. ISBN 0-943369-00-2. Whitford, William. "Battle of Glorieta Pass: The Colorado Volunteers in the Civil War." Rio Grande Press, 1990. ISBN 0-87380-171-7. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Battle of Glorieta Pass. The Battle of Glorieta Pass: A Shattered Dream, a National Park Service Teaching with Historic Places (TwHP) lesson plan Glorieta and Raton Passes: Gateways to the Southwest, a National Park Service Teaching with Historic Places (TwHP) lesson plan On this date in Civil War history – Battle of Glorieta Pass[dead link] Coordinates: 35°34?19.86?N 105°45?14.07?W? / ?35.5721833°N 105.7539083°W? / 35.5721833; -105.7539083 v t e American Civil War Origins Origins Issues Timeline leading to the War Antebellum era Bleeding Kansas Border states Compromise of 1850 John Brown's raid on Harpers Ferry Lincoln–Douglas debates Missouri Compromise Nullification crisis Origins of the American Civil War Popular sovereignty Secession States' rights President Lincoln's 75,000 volunteers Slavery African Americans Cornerstone Speech Dred Scott v. Sandford Emancipation Proclamation Fire-Eaters Fugitive slave laws Plantations in the American South Slave Power Slavery in the United States Treatment of slaves in the United States Uncle Tom's Cabin Abolitionism Susan B. Anthony James G. Birney John Brown Frederick Douglass William Lloyd Garrison Lane Debates on Slavery Elijah Parish Lovejoy J. Sella Martin Lysander Spooner George Luther Stearns Thaddeus Stevens Charles Sumner Caning Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad Combatants Theaters Campaigns Battles States Combatants Union Army Navy Marine Corps Revenue Cutter Service Confederacy Army Navy Marine Corps Theaters Eastern Western Lower Seaboard Trans-Mississippi Pacific Coast Union naval blockade Major campaigns Anaconda Plan Blockade runners New Mexico Jackson's Valley Peninsula Northern Virginia Maryland Stones River Vicksburg Tullahoma Gettysburg Morgan's Raid Bristoe Knoxville Red River Overland Atlanta Valley 1864 Bermuda Hundred Richmond-Petersburg Franklin–Nashville Price's Missouri Expedition Sherman's March Carolinas Mobile Appomattox Major battles Fort Sumter 1st Bull Run Wilson's Creek Fort Donelson Pea Ridge Hampton Roads Shiloh New Orleans Corinth Seven Pines Seven Days 2nd Bull Run Antietam Perryville Fredericksburg Stones River Chancellorsville Gettysburg Vicksburg Chickamauga Chattanooga Wilderness Fort Pillow Spotsylvania Cold Harbor Atlanta Mobile Bay Franklin Nashville Five Forks Involvement (by state or territory) Alabama Arkansas Arizona California Colorado Connecticut Dakota Territory District of Columbia Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indian Territory Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina Ohio Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Leaders Confederate Military R. H. Anderson Beauregard Bragg Buchanan Cooper Early Ewell Forrest Gorgas Hill Hood Jackson A. S. Johnston J. E. Johnston Lee Longstreet Morgan Mosby Polk Price Semmes E. K. Smith Stuart Taylor Wheeler Civilian Benjamin Bocock Breckinridge Davis Hunter Mallory Memminger Seddon Stephens Union Military Anderson Buell Burnside Butler Du Pont Farragut Foote Frémont Grant Halleck Hooker Hunt McClellan McDowell Meade Meigs Ord Pope D. D. Porter Rosecrans Scott Sheridan Sherman Thomas Civilian Adams Chase Ericsson Hamlin Lincoln Pinkerton Seward Stanton Stevens Wade Welles Aftermath Constitution Reconstruction amendments 13th Amendment 14th Amendment 15th Amendment Reconstruction Alabama Claims Brooks–Baxter War Carpetbaggers Colfax riot of 1873 Compromise of 1877 Confederate refugees Confederados Eufaula riot of 1874 Freedmen's Bureau Freedman's Savings Bank Homestead acts Southern Homestead Act of 1866 Timber Culture Act of 1873 Impeachment of Andrew Johnson Kirk–Holden war Knights of the White Camelia Ku Klux Klan Ethnic violence Memphis riots of 1866 Meridian riot of 1871 New Orleans riot of 1866 Pulaski (Tennessee) riot of 1867 South Carolina riots of 1876 Reconstruction acts Habeas Corpus Act 1867 Enforcement Act of 1870 Enforcement Act of February 1871 Enforcement Act of April 1871 Reconstruction era Reconstruction treaties Indian Council at Fort Smith Red Shirts Redeemers Scalawags South Carolina riots of 1876 Southern Claims Commission White League Post- reconstruction Commemoration Centennial Civil War Discovery Trail Civil War Roundtables Civil War Trails Program Civil War Trust Confederate History Month Confederate Memorial Day Historical reenactment Robert E. Lee Day Confederate Memorial Hall Disenfranchisement Black Codes Jim Crow Lost Cause mythology Modern display of the Confederate flag Red Shirts Sons of Confederate Veterans Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil War Southern Historical Society United Confederate Veterans United Daughters of the Confederacy Children of the Confederacy Wilmington insurrection of 1898 Monuments and memorials Union: List of Union Civil War monuments and memorials List of memorials to the Grand Army of the Republic Memorials to Abraham Lincoln Confederate: List of Confederate monuments and memorials Removal of Confederate monuments and memorials List of memorials to Robert E. Lee List of memorials to Jefferson Davis Annapolis Roger B. Taney Monument Baltimore Confederate Soldiers and Sailors Monument Confederate Women's Monument Roger B. Taney Monument Robert E. Lee and Stonewall Jackson Monument Durham, North Carolina Robert E. Lee Monument New Orleans Battle of Liberty Place Monument Jefferson Davis Monument General Beauregard Equestrian Statue Robert E. Lee Monument Silent Sam United Daughters of the Confederacy Cemeteries Confederate Memorial Day Ladies' memorial associations U.S. Memorial Day U.S. national cemeteries Veterans 1913 Gettysburg Reunion 1938 Gettysburg Reunion Confederate Memorial Hall Confederate Veteran Grand Army of the Republic Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the U.S. Old soldiers' homes Southern Cross of Honor United Confederate Veterans Related topics Related topics Military Arms Campaign Medal Cavalry Confederate Home Guard Confederate railroads Confederate revolving cannon Field artillery Medal of Honor recipients Medicine Leadership Naval battles Official Records Partisan rangers POW camps Rations Signal Corps Turning point Union corps badges U.S. Balloon Corps U.S. Home Guard U.S. Military Railroad Political Committee on the Conduct of the War Confederate States presidential election of 1861 Confiscation Act of 1861 Confiscation Act of 1862 Copperheads Emancipation Proclamation Habeas Corpus Act of 1863 Hampton Roads Conference National Union Party Radical Republicans Trent Affair Union leagues U.S. Presidential Election of 1864 War Democrats Music Battle Hymn of the Republic Dixie John Brown's Body A Lincoln Portrait Marching Through Georgia Maryland, My Maryland When Johnny Comes Marching Home Other topics Baltimore riot of 1861 Bibliography Confederate war finance Confederate States dollar Espionage Confederate Secret Service Great Revival of 1863 Naming the war Native Americans Cherokee Choctaw New York City Gold Hoax of 1864 New York City riots of 1863 Photographers Richmond riots of 1863 Sexuality Supreme Court cases Tokens U.S. Sanitary Commission Book Category Portal Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Battle_of_Glorieta_Pass&oldid=944855254" Categories: New Mexico Campaign Battles of the Trans-Mississippi Theater of the American Civil War Union victories of the American Civil War 1862 in New Mexico Territory Battles of the American Civil War in New Mexico History of Santa Fe County, New Mexico History of San Miguel County, New Mexico Sangre de Cristo Mountains American frontier March 1862 events Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from March 2015 Webarchive template wayback links Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from September 2010 Articles with short description Use mdy dates from March 2012 Commons category link is on Wikidata Coordinates on Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Dansk Deutsch Français Hrvatski Italiano ????? Nederlands ??? Polski Simple English Svenska Ti?ng Vi?t Edit links This page was last edited on 10 March 2020, at 10:02 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
