Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society - Wikipedia Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Berkman Center for Internet & Society) Jump to navigation Jump to search Research center at Harvard University ‹ The template Infobox organization is being considered for merging. › Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society Motto Exploring cyberspace, sharing in its study & pioneering its development. Formation 1998; 22 years ago (1998)[1] Type Technology research center Location Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States Website cyber.harvard.edu The Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society is a research center at Harvard University that focuses on the study of cyberspace. Founded at Harvard Law School, the center traditionally focused on internet-related legal issues. On May 15, 2008, the Center was elevated to an interfaculty initiative of Harvard University as a whole.[2] It is named after the Berkman family.[3] On July 5, 2016, the Center added "Klein" to its name following a gift of $15 million from Michael R. Klein.[4] Contents 1 History and mission 2 Projects and initiatives 2.1 Digital Media Law Project 2.2 Internet and Democracy Project 2.3 StopBadware 2.4 Digital Public Library of America 2.5 Ethics and Governance of Artificial Intelligence 3 Members 4 See also 5 References 6 External links History and mission[edit] The location at 23 Everett Street The center was founded in 1996 as the "Center on Law and Technology" by Jonathan Zittrain and Professor Charles Nesson. This built on previous work including a 1994 seminar they held on legal issues involving the early Internet. Professor Arthur Miller and students David Marglin and Tom Smuts also worked on that seminar and related discussions. In 1997, the Berkman family underwrote the center, and Lawrence Lessig joined as the first Berkman professor. In 1998, the center changed its name to the "Berkman Center for Internet & Society at Harvard Law School".[5][6][1] Since then, it has grown from a small project within Harvard Law School to a major interdisciplinary center at Harvard University.[7] The Berkman Klein Center seeks to understand how the development of Internet-related technologies is inspired by the social context in which they are embedded and how the use of those technologies affects society in turn. It seeks to use the lessons drawn from this research to inform the design of Internet-related law and pioneer the development of the Internet itself.[8] The Berkman Klein Center sponsors Internet-related events and conferences, and hosts numerous visiting lecturers and research fellows.[9] Members of the center teach, write books, scientific articles, weblogs with RSS 2.0 feeds (for which the Center holds the specification[10]), and podcasts (of which the first series took place at the Berkman Klein Center). Its newsletter, The Buzz, is on the Web and available by e-mail, and it hosts a blog community of Harvard faculty, students, and Berkman Klein Center affiliates.[11] The Berkman Klein Center faculty and staff have also conducted major public policy reviews of pressing issues. In 2008, John Palfrey led a review of child safety online called the Internet Safety Technical Task Force.[12] In 2009, Yochai Benkler led a review of United States broadband policy.[13] In 2010, Urs Gasser, along with Palfrey and others, led a review of Internet governance body ICANN, focusing on transparency, accountability, and public participation.[14] Projects and initiatives[edit] The Berkman Klein Center's main research topics are Teens and Media, Monitoring, Privacy, Digital art, Internet Governance, Cloud Computing and Internet censorship. The Berkman Klein Center supports events, presentations, and conferences about the Internet and invites scientists to share their ideas. Digital Media Law Project[edit] The Digital Media Law Project (DMLP) was a project hosted by the Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society at Harvard Law School. It had previously been known as the Citizen Media Law Project. The purposes of the DMLP were: To provide resources and other assistance, including legal assistance[15] as of 2009[update],[16] to individuals and groups involved in online and citizen media. To "ensur[e] that online journalists, media organizations, and their sources are allowed to examine and debate network security and data protection vulnerabilities without criminal punishment, in order to inform citizens and lawmakers about networked computer security."[15] To facilitate the participation of citizens in online media. To protect the freedom of speech on the Internet.[17][18] In 2014, Berkman Klein Center announced that it would "spin off its most effective initiatives and cease operation as a stand-alone project within the Berkman Klein Center."[16] Internet and Democracy Project[edit] The Berkman Klein Center operated the now-completed Internet and Democracy Project, which describes itself as an: initiative that will examine how the Internet influences democratic norms and modes, including its impact on civil society, citizen media, government transparency, and the rule of law, with a focus on the Middle East. Through a grant of $1.5 million from the US Department of State's Middle East Partnership Initiative, the Berkman Center will undertake the study over the next two years in collaboration with its extended community and institutional partners. As with all its projects, the Berkman Center retains complete independence in its research and other efforts under this grant. The goal of this work is to support the rights of citizens to access, develop and share independent sources of information, to advocate responsibly, to strengthen online networks, and to debate ideas freely with both civil society and government. These subjects will be examined through a series of case studies in which new technologies and online resources have influenced democracy and civic engagement. The project will include original research and the identification and development of innovative web-based tools that support the goals of the project. The team, led by Project Director Bruce Etling, will draw on communities from around the world, with a focus on the Middle East.[19] StopBadware[edit] In 2006, the Center established the non-profit organization StopBadware, aiming to stop viruses, spyware, and other threats to the open Internet, in partnership with the Oxford Internet Institute, Google, Lenovo and Sun Microsystems.[20] In 2010, StopBadware became an independent entity supported by Google, PayPal, and Mozilla.[21] Digital Public Library of America[edit] The Digital Public Library of America is a project aimed at making a large-scale digital public library accessible to all. Ethics and Governance of Artificial Intelligence[edit] In 2017, the BKC received a $27M grant with the MIT Media Lab to "advance Artificial Intelligence research for the public good"[22] and "to ensure automation and machine learning are researched, developed, and deployed in a way which vindicate social values of fairness, human autonomy, and justice".[23] Members[edit] Fellows include or have included John Perry Barlow, danah boyd, John Clippinger, Tamar Frankel, Benjamin Mako Hill, Reynol Junco, Rebecca MacKinnon, James F. Moore, Mayo Fuster Morell, Doc Searls, Amber Case, Wendy Seltzer, Peter Suber, Jimmy Wales, David Weinberger, Dave Winer, Primavera de Filippi, Samer Hassan, Yasodara Cordova, Wendy Seltzer, Rebecca MacKinnon, Bruce Schneier and Ethan Zuckerman. Faculty include Yochai Benkler, William "Terry" Fisher, Urs Gasser, Lawrence Lessig, Charles Nesson, John Palfrey, and Jonathan Zittrain. The center also has active groups of faculty associates, affiliates[24] and alumni[25] who host and participate in their projects each year. See also[edit] Berkeley Center for Law and Technology at Boalt Hall Canadian Internet Policy and Public Interest Clinic at University of Ottawa Faculty of Law NEXA Center for Internet and Society at the Polytechnic University of Turin Oxford Internet Institute Information Society Project at Yale Law School Haifa Center for Law & Technology at Haifa University Centre for Internet and Society (India) References[edit] ^ a b Swartz, Jon (10 June 2008). "Berkman Center pioneers steer the course of cyberspace". USA Today. Retrieved 28 March 2011. ^ Bradt, Steve. "Harvard Gazette announcement of Berkman Center elevation to Harvard interfaculty initiative". News.harvard.edu. Archived from the original on 2008-10-22. Retrieved August 22, 2010. ^ "Berkman Gift of $5.4 Million to Support Professorship for Entrepreneurial Legal Studies and Center for Internet & Society". harvard.edu. Retrieved 29 October 2015. ^ "Michael R. Klein LL.M. '67 supports future of cyberspace exploration and study - Harvard Law Today". Retrieved 2016-07-05. ^ "Frequently Asked Questions". Berkman Klein Center FAQ. Berkman Klein Center. Retrieved September 28, 2016. ^ "Timeline". Berkman Klein Center Timeline. Berkman Klein Center. Retrieved September 28, 2016. ^ "Harvard's Berkman Center Launches Publius Project". Schoollibraryjournal.com. May 19, 2008. Retrieved August 24, 2010. ^ "About Berkman Center". November 3, 2008. Retrieved March 30, 2011. ^ "Berkman Center People: Fellows". Cyber.law.harvard.edu. Archived from the original on 2011-09-06. Retrieved September 9, 2011. ^ "Advisory Board Notes". RSS Advisory Board. July 18, 2003. Retrieved September 4, 2007. ^ Az internet természete - Google Books. Books.google.com. Retrieved August 24, 2010. ^ "Harvard, MySpace spearhead Internet safety task force". Ars Technica. Retrieved 29 October 2015. ^ Yochai Benkler (March 20, 2010). "Ending the Internet's Trench Warfare". New York Times Op-Ed. ^ "Accountability and Transparency Review Team – Selection of Independent Expert and Update on ATRT Review". icann.org. Retrieved 29 October 2015. ^ a b Walsh, Kit; Hermes, Jeffrey P.; Sellars, Andrew F. (2013-07-08). "Brief of Amicus Curiae Digital Media Law Project in Support of Defendant-Appellant [Andrew Auernheimer]". EFF.org. Retrieved 2015-08-31. ^ a b Benton, Joshua (2014-06-25). "The Digital Media Law Project is shutting down, but its most important projects will find new homes". NiemanLab.org. Retrieved 2015-08-31. ^ Anderson, R.; Warne, C. (2014). "Digital Media Law Project". Encyclopedia of social media and politics. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, Inc. 4: 398–399. doi:10.4135/9781452244723.n158. ^ "Digital Media Law Project". Berkman Center for Internet & Society. Harvard.edu. Retrieved 2015-08-31. ^ "Internet and Democracy - Berkman Center". harvard.edu. Retrieved 29 October 2015. ^ Mohammed, Arshad (25 January 2006). "Internet Coalition Sets Up Anti-'Badware' Site". The Washington Post. Retrieved 3 February 2018. ^ Miller, Mary Helen (28 January 2010). "StopBadware Spins Off From Harvard U. to Be a Stand-Alone Nonprofit Group". The Chronicle of HIgher Education. Retrieved 3 February 2018. ^ "MIT Media Lab to participate in $27 million initiative on AI ethics and governance". MIT News. Retrieved 2019-12-21. ^ Williams, Oliver. "Why Tech Billionaires Are Spending To Restrain Artificial Intelligence". Forbes. Retrieved 2019-12-21. ^ "People". harvard.edu. Archived from the original on 2015-09-07. Retrieved 29 October 2015. ^ "People". harvard.edu. Archived from the original on 2015-09-09. Retrieved 29 October 2015. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Berkman Center for Internet & Society. Official website v t e Harvard University History John Harvard statue President Lawrence Bacow Board of Overseers President and Fellows of Harvard College Provost Alan Garber Harvard Library Arts and Sciences Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Michael D. Smith College Harvard College Dean Rakesh Khurana Radcliffe College Freshman dormitories Upperclass houses Adams Cabot Currier Dudley Dunster Eliot Kirkland Leverett Lowell Mather Pforzheimer Quincy Winthrop Undergraduate organizations The Harvard Crimson The Harvard Lampoon The Harvard Advocate The Harvard Independent Hasty Pudding Theatricals Athletics Baseball Men's basketball Women's basketball Football Men's ice hockey Women's ice hockey Men's lacrosse? Rugby Men's soccer Men's squash Men's volleyball Women's volleyball Ivy League Harvard Stadium Yale football rivalry Lavietes Pavilion Bright-Landry Hockey Center Cornell hockey rivalry Beanpot Weld Boathouse Newell Boathouse Continuing Education Harvard Division of Continuing Education Dean Huntington D. Lambert Harvard Extension School Harvard Summer School History of Harvard Extension School Eng.?&?Appl. Sciences Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Dean Francis J. Doyle III Lyman Laboratory of Physics Graduate School Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Dean Emma Dench Libraries Cabot Harvard-Yenching Houghton Harvard Review Lamont Pusey Widener Harry Elkins Widener Eleanor Elkins Widener Grossman Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Center for Hellenic Studies Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Harvard–Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics Nieman Foundation for Journalism Ukrainian Research Institute Villa I Tatti W. E. B. Du Bois Institute Business Harvard Business School Dean Nitin Nohria Harvard Business Publishing Harvard Business Review Baker Library/Bloomberg Center Spangler Center Design Harvard Graduate School of Design Dean Sarah Whiting Harvard Design Magazine Joint Center for Housing Studies Divinity Harvard Divinity School Dean David N. Hempton Education Harvard Graduate School of Education Dean Bridget Terry Long Government John F. Kennedy School of Government Dean Douglas Elmendorf Institute of Politics Shorenstein Center Law Harvard Law School Dean John F. Manning Harvard Law Review Harvard Journal of Law & Technology Harvard Law Record Harvard International Law Journal Harvard Civil Rights-Civil Liberties Law Review Harvard Journal on Legislation Berkman Klein Center Medicine Harvard Medical School Dean George Q. Daley Broad Institute Countway Library Warren Anatomical Museum Harvard–MIT Program in Health Sciences and Technology Dentistry Harvard School of Dental Medicine Public health Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Dean Michelle Ann Williams Museums Harvard Art Museums Arthur M. Sackler Museum Busch–Reisinger Museum Fogg Museum Harvard Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Harvard Museum of Natural History Glass Flowers Mineralogical Museum Herbaria Museum of Comparative Zoology Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Semitic Museum General Artemas Ward House Cambridge campus 1857 Gate 1881 Gate Boylston Hall Bradstreet Gate Discobolus Harvard Graduate Center Harvard Hall Memorial Church Choir Harvard Yard Holworthy Gate Johnston Gate Massachusetts Hall Memorial Hall Meyer Gate Night Wall I Peabody Terrace Radcliffe Yard Robert Stow Bradley Jr. Memorial Science Center Plaza Smith Campus Center University Hall Centers and Institutes Dumbarton Oaks Harvard Forest Harvard Innovation Labs Institute for Advanced Theater Training Massachusetts Green High Performance Computing Center Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Schlesinger Library Real Colegio Complutense Rowland Institute for Science Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering People List of Harvard University people List of Harvard University non-graduate alumni List of Nobel laureates affiliated with Harvard University Miscellaneous Commencement traditions Academic regalia Heraldry Harvard Graduate Students Union Tercentenary celebration Harvard University Professor Harvard Magazine Harvard Gazette Harvard University Press Society of Fellows Lionel de Jersey Harvard Coordinates: 42°22?46?N 71°07?10?W? / ?42.37955°N 71.11957°W? / 42.37955; -71.11957 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Berkman_Klein_Center_for_Internet_%26_Society&oldid=944195441" Categories: Information technology research institutes Harvard Law School Research institutes in Massachusetts Berkman Fellows Computer law organizations Information society Internet governance advocacy groups Internet-related activism Technology in society Research institutes established in 1998 1998 establishments in Massachusetts Harvard University Hidden categories: Articles with short description Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2009 All articles containing potentially dated statements Commons category link from Wikidata Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia Coordinates not on Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? Deutsch Eesti Español ????? Français ??? Türkçe ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 6 March 2020, at 08:58 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
