Bibsys - Wikipedia Bibsys From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Screenshot of the Oria search page, showing a search for "Wikipedia" at the University of Bergen Library Screenshot of the older Ask version of Bibsys, showing the advanced search field BIBSYS is an administrative agency set up and organized by the Ministry of Education and Research in Norway. They are a service provider, focusing on the exchange, storage and retrieval of data pertaining to research, teaching and learning – historically metadata related to library resources. BIBSYS are collaborating with all Norwegian universities and university colleges as well as research institutions and the National Library of Norway.[1][2] Bibsys is formally organized as a unit at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), located in Trondheim, Norway. The board of directors is appointed by Norwegian Ministry of Education and Research. BIBSYS offer researchers, students and others an easy access to library resources by providing the unified search service Oria.no and other library services. [3] They also deliver integrated products for the internal operation for research and special libraries as well as open educational resources. [4] As a DataCite member BIBSYS act as a national DataCite representative in Norway and thereby allow all of Norway's higher education and research institutions to use DOI on their research data. All their products and services are developed in cooperation with their member institutions. Contents 1 History 2 See also 3 References 4 External links History[edit] BIBSYS began in 1972 as a collaborative project between the Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences and Letters Library (Det Kongelige Norske Videnskabers Selskabs Bibliotek), the Norwegian Institute of Technology Library and the Computer Centre at the Norwegian Institute of Technology. The purpose of the project was to automate internal library routines. Since 1972 Bibsys has evolved from a library system supplier for two libraries in Trondheim, to developing and operating a national library system for Norwegian research and special libraries. The target group has also expanded to include the customers of research and special libraries, by providing them easy access to library resources. BIBSYS is a public administrative agency answerable to the Ministry of Education and Research, and administratively organised as a unit at NTNU. In addition to BIBSYS Library System, the product portfolio consists of BISBYS Ask, BIBSYS Brage, BIBSYS Galleri and BIBSYS Tyr. All operation of applications and databases is performed centrally by BIBSYS. BIBSYS also offer a range of services, both in connection with their products and separate services independent of the products they supply. See also[edit] Open access in Norway References[edit] ^ Language institute asks hackers to help (archived) in Aftenposten, 7 June 2002 "The Ivar Aasen Center is a member of Bibsys, which is a library data center offering services to all Norwegian University Libraries, the National Library, all college libraries, and a number of research libraries." ^ Kulturell kampanjejournalistikk in Aftenposten 4 March 2009 "Et enkelt søk i Bibsys (et elektronisk biblioteksystem for hele landet, red.anm.)" ^ Pilotprosjekt i det stille in Aftenposten 25 June 2009 "eller du kan låne den fra nærmeste bibliotek gjennom Bibsys." ^ Harvard i spissen for utdanningsrevolusjon in Aftenposten 5 June 2014 "Mellom fem og ti nye studietilbud har meldt sin ankomst til sommeren og høsten, sier Frode Arntsen i Bibsys, som er ansvarlig for nettportalen." External links[edit] Wikidata has the property: NORAF ID (P1015) (see uses) Om Bibsys (in Norwegian) v t e Norwegian University of Science and Technology History Norwegian College of General Sciences Norwegian Institute of Technology Campuses Dragvoll Gløshaugen Divisions Bibsys Department of Petroleum Engineering and Applied Geophysics EHR Research Centre Gemini Institute at Athens Moser research environment University Museum NUTS 1 Revolve NTNU St. Olav's University Hospital Trondheim Academy of Fine Art Trondhjem Biological Station Ugelstad Laboratory Student life NTNUI Student Society Student Welfare Organisation Under Dusken v t e Authority control files AAG • ACM DL • ADB • AGSA • autores.uy • AWR • BALaT • BIBSYS • Bildindex • BNC • BNE • BNF • Botanist • BPN • CANTIC • CiNii • DAAO • DBLP • DSI • FNZA • GND • HDS • World Athletics • ICIA • ISNI • Joconde • KulturNav • LCCN • LIR • LNB • Léonore • MusicBrainz • MGP • NARA • NCL • NDL • NGV • NKC • NLA • NLG • NLI • NLK • NLP • NLR • NSK • NTA • ORCID • PIC • ResearcherID • RERO • RKD • RKDimages ID • RSL • ICCU • SELIBR • SIKART • SNAC • SUDOC • S2AuthorId • TA98 • TDV?A • TE • TePapa • TH • TLS • Trove • ULAN • US Congress • VIAF • WorldCat Identities Authority control BIBSYS: 90055718 ISNI: 0000 0004 0646 229X VIAF: 1363148997673459870009 WorldCat Identities: viaf-1363148997673459870009 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bibsys&oldid=933746706" Categories: Library-related organizations Libraries in Norway Norwegian University of Science and Technology 1972 establishments in Norway Government agencies established in 1972 Library centers Library cataloging and classification Hidden categories: Articles with Norwegian-language sources (no) Wikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Asturianu Bân-lâm-gú ??????? ????????? Català Cymraeg Dansk ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Gàidhlig Galego ??? Ilokano Bahasa Indonesia ????? Magyar Nordfriisk Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Român? Scots Simple English Slovenš?ina Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 2 January 2020, at 20:31 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
