Biological patent - Wikipedia Biological patent From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Patent law Overviews Patents History Economics Societal views Basic concepts Application Prosecution Opposition Licensing Infringement Valuation Patent claims Patentability Novelty Inventive step and non-obviousness Inventorship Industrial applicability Patentable subject matter Person skilled in the art Prior art Utility Additional requirements Sufficiency of disclosure Unity of invention By region / country Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) Australia Canada China Europe Germany Japan Netherlands United States By specific subject matter Biological Business method Chemical Insurance Software Tax See also Category Glossary v t e A biological patent is a patent on an invention in the field of biology that by law allows the patent holder to exclude others from making, using, selling, or importing the protected invention for a limited period of time. The scope and reach of biological patents vary among jurisdictions,[1] and may include biological technology and products, genetically modified organisms and genetic material. The applicability of patents to substances and processes wholly or partially natural in origin is a subject of debate.[1] Contents 1 Biological patents in different jurisdictions 1.1 Australia 1.2 Europe 1.3 Japan 1.4 United States 2 Ethics 3 See also 4 References 5 External links Biological patents in different jurisdictions[edit] Australia[edit] In February 2013, Judge Justice John Nicholas ruled in the Federal Court of Australia in favour of a Myriad Genetics patent on the BRCA1 gene.[2] This was a landmark ruling, affirming the validity of patents on naturally occurring DNA sequences. However, the U.S. Supreme Court came to the opposite conclusion only a few months later. The Australian ruling has been appealed to the Full Bench of the Federal Court; submissions in the case include consideration of the U.S. Supreme Court ruling.[3][4] This decision was decided in 2014, affirming Nicholas J's decision in favor of Myriad, confirming that isolated genetic material (genes) are valid subjects of patents.[5] As of June 2015 the case was pending hearing in the High Court of Australia.[6] In October 2015 the Australian high court ruled that naturally occurring genes cannot be patented.[7] Europe[edit] European Union directive 98/44/EC (the Biotech Directive) reconciled the legislation of biological patents among certain countries under the jurisdiction of the European Patent Organisation.[1] It allows for the patenting of natural biological products, including gene sequences, as long as they are "isolated from [their] natural environment or produced by means of a technical process."[1] The European Patent Office has ruled that European patents cannot be granted for processes that involve the destruction of human embryos.[8] Japan[edit] Under the umbrella of biotechnology, applications for patents on biological inventions are examined according to general guidelines for patents. In response to requests for additional clarity, the Japan Patent Office (JPO) set forth specific guidelines for biology-related inventions. Over the years, the JPO has continued to amend these guidelines to clarify their application to new technologies. These amendments have broadened the scope of patents within the biotechnology industry. The Japanese Patent Act requires that patented inventions be “industrially applicable”, i.e. they must have market or commercial potential. The JPO explicitly lists “medical activities” among inventions that fall outside the scope of industrially applicable inventions, meaning that methods of surgery, therapy, and the diagnosis of human diseases cannot be patented.[9] United States[edit] Main article: Biological patents in the United States In the United States, up until 2013 natural biological substances themselves could have been patented (apart from any associated process or usage) if they were sufficiently "isolated" from their naturally occurring states. Prominent historical examples of such patents include those on adrenaline,[10] insulin,[11] vitamin B12,[12] and various genes.[13] A landmark ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court in June 2013 declared naturally occurring DNA sequences ineligible for patents.[14] Ethics[edit] The patenting of genes is a controversial issue in terms of bioethics. Some believe it is unethical to patent genetic material because it treats life as a commodity, or that it undermines the dignity of people and animals by allowing ownership of genes.[15] Some say that living materials occur naturally, and therefore cannot be patented.[16] The American Medical Association's stance is that gene patents inhibit access to genetic testing for patients and hinder research on genetic disease.[17] While some feel that a patent on living material is unethical, others[who?] believe that not allowing patents on biotechnological inventions would also be unethical. Supporters of this idea suggest that patents allow the public, as well as policy makers, to hold the owner of the patent(s) accountable. They favor biological patents because they require disclosure of information to the public.[18] Agreements such as the Agreement on Trade-related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) require members of the World Trade Organization (WTO) to have intellectual property protection laws in place for most biological innovation[why?], making it unlikely that many countries will prohibit patents on genes altogether.[16] Some[who?] say that patenting genes only commodifies life if a patent applies to an entire human being, arguing that[who?] patents on single body parts do not violate human dignity.[19] Another area of controversy in genetic patenting is how gene samples are obtained. Prior consent is required to collect genetic samples, and collection of samples from people requires consent at the national and community levels as well as the individual level. Conflicts have resulted when consent is not obtained at all three levels. The question of benefit sharing also arises when obtaining genetic samples, specifically the potential responsibility of the collector to share any benefits or profits of the discoveries with the population or person from whom the sample came.[16] The last major ethical issue involving gene patents is how the patents are used post-issuance. A major concern[who?] is that the use of patented materials and processes will be very expensive or even prohibited to some degree by conditions the patent owner sets.[20] Limiting access like this would directly impact agricultural institutes and university researchers, among others. Some[who?] fear that holders of biotechnology patents would exploit their rights in order to make larger profits, at the potential expense of farmers, healthcare patients, and other users of patented technologies. The ethics of using patents to increase profits are also debated. A typical argument in favor of biotech patents is that they enable companies to earn money that the companies in turn invest in further research. Without these patents, some worry that companies would no longer have the resources or motives to perform competitive, viable biotech research.[16] See also[edit] Bioprospecting and biopiracy Budapest Treaty Human Genome Project The Lens References[edit] ^ a b c d Sharples, Andrew (2011-03-23). "Gene Patents in Europe Relatively Stable Despite Uncertainty in the U.S." Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology News. Retrieved 2013-06-13. ^ Corderoy, Amy (February 15, 2013). "Landmark patent ruling over breast cancer gene BRCA1". Sydney Morning Herald. Retrieved June 14, 2013. ^ Corderoy, Amy (March 4, 2013). "BRCA1 gene patent ruling to be appealed". Sydney Morning Herald. Retrieved June 14, 2013. ^ Corderoy, Amy (June 14, 2013). "Companies can't patent genes, US court rules". Sydney Morning Herald. Retrieved June 14, 2013. ^ "Full Federal Court Upholds Gene Patents: D'Arcy v Myriad Genetics Inc [2014] FCAFC 115". ^ "D'Arcy v. Myriad Genetics Inc & Anor". ^ "Genes can't be patented, rules Australia's High Court". www.newscientist.com. 7 October 2015. Retrieved 27 September 2018. ^ Decision G2/06 of 25 November 2008, WARF/Stem Cells (OJ EPO 2009, 306). See also Decision T 2221/10 of 4 February 2014, Culturing stem cells/TECHNION. ^ iPS Cell Technology Spurs Biological Patenting in Japan (PDF), World Intellectual Property Review, May 2013, archived from the original (PDF) on 2013-12-30, retrieved 2013-08-06 ^ Crouch D (23 May 2012). "Guest Post: Myriad Misunderstanding of Parke-Davis v. Mulford". Patentlyo. Retrieved 26 Mar 2017. ^ "Why People with Diabetes Can't Buy Generic Insulin". Johns Hopkins Medicine. 18 Mar 2015. Retrieved 26 Mar 2017. ^ Zuhn D (9 Jun 2009). "Gene Patenting Debate Continues". PatentDocs: Biotech & Pharma Patent Law & News Blog. Retrieved 26 Mar 2017. ^ Cook-Deegan R, Heaney C (22 Sep 2010). "Patents in Genomics and Human Genetics". Annu Rev Genom Hum Genet. 11: 383–425. doi:10.1146/annurev-genom-082509-141811. PMC 2935940. PMID 20590431. ^ Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, 569 U.S. ___ (2013) [1] Archived 2013-06-13 at the Wayback Machine ^ Dresser R. 1988. Ethical and Legal Issues in Patenting New Animal Life. Jurimetrics 28:399-435 ^ a b c d Marchant GE. 2007. Genomics, Ethics, and Intellectual Property. Intellectual Property Management in Health and Agricultural Innovation: A Handbook of Best Practices. Ch 1.5:29-38 ^ "Gene Patenting". ^ Caulfield TA, Gold ER. 2000. Genetic Testing. Ethical Concerns, and the Role of Patent Law. Clinical Genetics 57:370-75 ^ Resnik, DB (2001). "DNA Patents and Human dignity". The Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics. 29 (1): 152–165. ^ Andrews, LB (2000). "Genes and Patent Policy: Rethinking IP Rights". Nature Reviews Genetics. 3: 803–8. doi:10.1038/nrg909. External links[edit] Relevant legal provisions of the European Patent Convention: Article 53(a) EPC: "Exceptions to patentability" (formerly Article 53a EPC 1973) Rule 28 EPC: "Exceptions to patentability" (formerly Rule 23c EPC 1973), barring the patentability of, notably, "processes for cloning human beings" (Rule 28(a) EPC); "processes for modifying the germ line genetic identity of human beings" (Rule 28(b) EPC); and "uses of human embryos for industrial or commercial purposes" (Rule 28(c) EPC) v t e Academic publishing Journals Academic journal Scientific journal Open access journal Public health journal Papers Scholarly paper Review article Position paper Working paper Literature review Other types of publication Thesis (Collection of articles, Monograph) Specialized patent (biological, chemical) Book Book chapter Technical report Pamphlet Essay White paper Preprint Poster session Lab notes Abstract Impact and ranking Altmetrics Article-level metrics Bibliometrics Citation impact Citation index Journal ranking Eigenfactor h-index Impact factor SCImago Journal Rank Scientometrics Reform Academic journal publishing reform Full-text-on-the-Net bias (FUTON bias) Open access Serials crisis Sci-Hub Indexes and search engines Google Scholar PubMed PubMed Central Scopus Web of Science CiteSeerX Scirus (defunct) Related topics Imprint Scientific writing Peer review Proceedings Grey literature Scientific literature Learned society Open research Open science data ORCID Electronic publishing Ingelfinger rule Lists Academic journals Scientific journals Open-access journals Academic databases and search engines University presses Style/formatting guides Category:Academic publishing Category:Scientific documents Portal Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Biological_patent&oldid=933207847" Categories: Science and law Biological patent law Biotechnology law Emerging technologies Commercialization of traditional medicines Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from November 2013 Wikipedia articles needing clarification from October 2018 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Deutsch Español Esperanto Français Italiano ??? Edit links This page was last edited on 30 December 2019, at 15:57 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Frank@Garfield.info
