Brown University - Wikipedia Brown University From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article is about the Ivy League university in Rhode Island. For the university in Arkansas, see John Brown University. University in Providence, Rhode Island Brown University Latin: Universitas Brunensis Former names Rhode Island College (1764–1804) Motto In Deo Speramus (Latin) Motto in English In God We Hope[1] Type Private Established September 15, 1764 (1764-09-15) Academic affiliations AAU URA NAICU 568 Group Endowment $4.2 billion (2019)[2] President Christina Paxson Provost Richard M. Locke[3] Academic staff 816[4] Students 10,257 (Fall 2018)[5] Undergraduates 7,043 (Fall 2018)[5] Postgraduates 3,214 (Fall 2018)[5] Location Providence, Rhode Island, United States 41°49?34?N 71°24?12?W? / ?41.8262°N 71.4032°W? / 41.8262; -71.4032Coordinates: 41°49?34?N 71°24?12?W? / ?41.8262°N 71.4032°W? / 41.8262; -71.4032 Campus Urban 143 acres (579,000 m²) Colors Brown, White, and Cardinal[6]                Nickname Bears Sporting affiliations NCAA Division I – Ivy League ECAC Hockey, EARC/EAWRC Mascot Bruno the Bear Website brown.edu Brown University is a private Ivy League research university in Providence, Rhode Island. Founded in 1764 as the College in the English Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, it is the seventh-oldest institution of higher education in the United States and one of the nine colonial colleges chartered before the American Revolution.[7] At its foundation, Brown was the first college in the U.S. to accept students regardless of their religious affiliation.[8] Its engineering program was established in 1847. It was one of the early doctoral-granting U.S. institutions in the late 19th century, adding masters and doctoral studies in 1887.[9] In 1969, Brown adopted a New Curriculum sometimes referred to as the Brown Curriculum after a period of student lobbying. The New Curriculum eliminated mandatory "general education" distribution requirements, made students "the architects of their own syllabus" and allowed them to take any course for a grade of satisfactory or unrecorded no-credit.[10] In 1971, Brown's coordinate women's institution, Pembroke College, was fully merged into the university; Pembroke Campus now includes dormitories and classrooms used by all of Brown. Undergraduate admissions is highly selective, with an acceptance rate of 6.6 percent for the class of 2023.[11] The university comprises the College, the Graduate School, Alpert Medical School, the School of Engineering, the School of Public Health and the School of Professional Studies (which includes the IE Brown Executive MBA program). Brown's international programs are organized through the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs, and the university is academically affiliated with the Marine Biological Laboratory and the Rhode Island School of Design. The Brown/RISD Dual Degree Program, offered in conjunction with the Rhode Island School of Design, is a five-year course that awards degrees from both institutions. Brown's main campus is located in the College Hill Historic District in the city of Providence, Rhode Island. The University's neighborhood is a federally listed architectural district with a dense concentration of Colonial-era buildings. Benefit Street, on the western edge of the campus, contains "one of the finest cohesive collections of restored seventeenth- and eighteenth-century architecture in the United States".[12] As of November 2019[update], 8 Nobel Prize winners have been affiliated with Brown University as alumni, faculty, or researchers. In addition, Brown's faculty and alumni include 5 National Humanities Medalists[13] and 10 National Medal of Science laureates. Other notable alumni include 8 billionaire graduates,[14] a U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice, 4 U.S. Secretaries of State and other Cabinet officials, 54 members of the United States Congress, 56 Rhodes Scholars, 52 Gates Cambridge Scholars[15] 49 Marshall Scholars,[16][17] 14 MacArthur Genius Fellows,[18] 23 Pulitzer Prize winners, various royals and nobles, as well as leaders and founders of Fortune 500 companies.[19] Contents 1 History 1.1 The foundation and the charter 1.1.1 The Brown family 1.1.2 The American Revolution 1.2 The New Curriculum 1.3 Slavery and Justice report 2 Coat of arms 3 Campus 3.1 Main campus 3.2 Haffenreffer Museum 3.3 Annmary Brown Memorial 3.4 The Walk 3.5 Pembroke campus 4 Academics 4.1 Presidents 4.2 The College 4.3 Brown/RISD Dual Degree Program 4.4 Theatre and playwriting 4.5 Writing programs 4.6 Author prizewinners 4.7 Computer science 4.8 The Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World 4.9 The Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 4.10 The School of Engineering 4.11 IE Brown Executive MBA Dual Degree Program 4.12 The Pembroke Center 4.13 The Graduate School 4.14 Alpert Medical School 4.15 The Marine Biological Laboratory 4.16 Online Programs 5 Admissions and financial aid 6 Sustainability 7 Athletics 8 Student life 8.1 Campus safety 8.2 Spring weekend 8.3 Residential and Greek societies 8.4 Societies and clubs 8.5 Student organizations 8.6 Resource centers 9 Rankings 10 Notable people 10.1 In popular culture 11 See also 12 Notes 13 References 13.1 Citations 13.2 Bibliography 14 External links History[edit] Main article: History of Brown University The foundation and the charter[edit] The Ezra Stiles copy of the Brown University Charter of 1764 The first president, James Manning, taught the earliest college classes at his parish house The origin of Brown University can be dated to 1761, when three residents of Newport, Rhode Island drafted a petition to the General Assembly of the colony:[20] Your Petitioners propose to open a literary institution or School for instructing young Gentlemen in the Languages, Mathematics, Geography & History, & such other branches of Knowledge as shall be desired. That for this End ... it will be necessary ... to erect a public Building or Buildings for the boarding of the youth & the Residence of the Professors. The three petitioners were Ezra Stiles, pastor of Newport's Second Congregational Church and future president of Yale; William Ellery, Jr., future signer of the United States Declaration of Independence; and Josias Lyndon, future governor of the colony. Stiles and Ellery were co-authors of the Charter of the College two years later. The editor of Stiles's papers observes, "This draft of a petition connects itself with other evidence of Dr. Stiles's project for a Collegiate Institution in Rhode Island, before the charter of what became Brown University."[21] There is further documentary evidence that Stiles was making plans for a college in 1762. On January 20, Chauncey Whittelsey, pastor of the First Church of New Haven, answered a letter from Stiles:[22] The week before last I sent you the Copy of Yale College Charter ... Should you make any Progress in the Affair of a Colledge, I should be glad to hear of it; I heartily wish you Success therein. The Philadelphia Association of Baptist Churches also had an eye on Rhode Island, home of the mother church of their denomination: the First Baptist Church in America, founded in Providence in 1638 by Roger Williams. The Baptists were as yet unrepresented among colonial colleges; the Congregationalists had Harvard and Yale, the Presbyterians had the College of New Jersey (later Princeton), and the Episcopalians had the College of William and Mary and King's College (later Columbia). Isaac Backus was the historian of the New England Baptists and an inaugural Trustee of Brown, writing in 1784. He described the October 1762 resolution taken at Philadelphia:[23] The Philadelphia Association obtained such an acquaintance with our affairs, as to bring them to an apprehension that it was practicable and expedient to erect a college in the Colony of Rhode-Island, under the chief direction of the Baptists; ... Mr. James Manning, who took his first degree in New-Jersey college in September, 1762, was esteemed a suitable leader in this important work. Manning arrived at Newport in July 1763 and was introduced to Stiles, who agreed to write the Charter for the College. Stiles's first draft was read to the General Assembly in August 1763 and rejected by Baptist members who worried that the College Board of Fellows would under-represent the Baptists. A revised Charter written by Stiles and Ellery was adopted by the Assembly on March 3, 1764. In September 1764, the inaugural meeting of the College Corporation was held at Newport. Governor Stephen Hopkins was chosen chancellor, former and future governor Samuel Ward was vice chancellor, John Tillinghast treasurer, and Thomas Eyres secretary. The Charter stipulated that the Board of Trustees be composed of 22 Baptists, five Quakers, five Episcopalians, and four Congregationalists. Of the 12 Fellows, eight should be Baptists—including the College president—"and the rest indifferently of any or all Denominations."[24] The Charter was not the grant of King George III, as is sometimes supposed, but rather an Act of the colonial General Assembly. In two particulars, the Charter may be said to be a uniquely progressive document. First, other colleges had curricular strictures against opposing doctrines, while Brown's Charter asserted, "Sectarian differences of opinions, shall not make any Part of the Public and Classical Instruction." Second, according to Brown University historian Walter Bronson, "the instrument governing Brown University recognized more broadly and fundamentally than any other the principle of denominational cooperation."[25] The oft-repeated statement is inaccurate that Brown's Charter alone prohibited a religious test for College membership; other college charters were also liberal in that particular. University Hall (right) and president's house, engraving 1792 James Manning was sworn in as the College's first president in 1765 and served until 1791. In 1770, the College moved from Warren, Rhode Island to the crest of College Hill overlooking Providence. Solomon Drowne, a freshman in the class of 1773, wrote in his diary on March 26, 1770:[26] This day the Committee for settling the spot for the College, met at the New-Brick School House, when it was determined it should be set on ye Hill opposite Mr. John Jenkes; up the Presbyterian Lane. Presbyterian Lane is the present College Street. The eight-acre site had been purchased in two parcels by the Corporation for £219, mainly from Moses Brown and John Brown, the parcels having "formed a part of the original home lots of their ancestor, Chad Brown, and of George Rickard, who bought them from the Indians." University Hall was known as "The College Edifice" until 1823; it was modelled on Nassau Hall at the College of New Jersey. Its construction was managed by the firm of Nicholas Brown and Company, which spent £2,844 in the first year building the College Edifice and the adjacent President's House.[27][28] Nicholas Brown, Jr., founder of the Providence Athenaeum, co-founder of Butler Hospital, philanthropist, progressive, and abolitionist. Following his major gift in 1804, the College was renamed Brown University. Painting by Chester Harding, 1836 The Brown family[edit] Nicholas Brown, his son Nicholas Brown, Jr. (class of 1786), John Brown, Joseph Brown, and Moses Brown were all instrumental in moving the College to Providence and securing its endowment. Joseph became a professor of natural philosophy at the College; John served as its treasurer from 1775 to 1796; and Nicholas Junior succeeded his uncle as treasurer from 1796 to 1825. On September 8, 1803, the Corporation voted, "That the donation of $5000 Dollars, if made to this College within one Year from the late Commencement, shall entitle the donor to name the College." That appeal was answered by College treasurer Nicholas Brown Junior in a letter dated September 6, 1804, and the Corporation honored its promise. "In gratitude to Mr. Brown, the Corporation at the same meeting voted, 'That this College be called and known in all future time by the Name of Brown University'."[25] Over the years, the benefactions of Nicholas Brown, Jr. totaled nearly $160,000, an enormous sum for that period, and included the buildings Hope College (1821–22) and Manning Hall (1834-35). It is sometimes erroneously supposed that Brown University was named after John Brown, whose commercial activity included the transportation of African slaves. In fact, Brown University was named for Nicholas Brown, Jr.—philanthropist, founder of the Providence Athenaeum, co-founder of Butler Hospital, and an abolitionist. Nicholas Brown, Jr. became a financier of the movement under the guidance of his uncle Moses Brown, one of the leading abolitionists of his day.[29][unreliable source?][30] Brigadier general James Mitchell Varnum (class of 1769) served in the Continental Army and advocated the enlistment of African Americans, which resulted in the reformation of the 1st Rhode Island Regiment as an all-black unit. Painting by Charles Willson Peale, 1804 Brown University, R.I, c. 1840, New York Public Library The American Revolution[edit] The College library was moved out of Providence for safekeeping in the fall of 1776, with British vessels patrolling Narragansett Bay. On December 7, 1776, six thousand British and Hessian troops sailed into Newport harbor under the command of Sir Peter Parker. College President Manning said in a letter written after the war:[31] The royal Army landed on Rhode Island & took possession of the same: This brought their Camp in plain View from the College with the naked Eye; upon which the Country flew to Arms & marched for Providence, there, unprovided with Barracks they marched into the College & dispossessed the Students, about 40 in Number. "In the claim for damages presented by the Corporation to the United States government," says the University historian, "it is stated that the American troops used it for barracks and hospital from December 10, 1776, to April 20, 1780, and that the French troops used it for a hospital from June 26, 1780, to May 27, 1782."[32] The French troops were those of the Comte de Rochambeau. On the College Green, Sayles Hall (left), built 1878–81, designed by Alpheus C. Morse, and Wilson Hall, built 1891, designed by Gould & Angell, both buildings in the Richardsonian Romanesque style The New Curriculum[edit] Main article: Open Curriculum (Brown University) In 1966, the first Group Independent Study Project (GISP) at Brown was formed, involving 80 students and 15 professors. The GISP was inspired by student-initiated experimental schools, especially San Francisco State College, and sought ways to "put students at the center of their education" and "teach students how to think rather than just teaching facts."[33] Members of the GISP, Ira Magaziner and Elliot Maxwell published a paper of their findings entitled, "Draft of a Working Paper for Education at Brown University."[34][33] The paper made proposals for the new curriculum, including interdisciplinary freshman-year courses that would introduce "modes of thought," with instruction from faculty from different disciplines as well as for an end to letter grades. The following year Magaziner began organizing the student body to press for the reforms, organizing discussions and protests.[35] In 1969, University President Ray Heffner Special Committee on Curricular Philosophy in response to student rallies held support of curriculum reform. The committee was tasked with developing specific reforms and the resulting report was called the Maeder Report after the committee's chairman. The report was presented to the faculty, which voted the New Curriculum into existence on May 7, 1969. Its key features included:[36] Modes of Thought courses for first-year students The introduction of interdisciplinary courses The abandonment of "general education" distribution requirements The Satisfactory/No Credit (S/NC) grading option The ABC/No Credit grading system, which eliminated pluses, minuses, and D's; a grade of "No Credit" would not appear on external transcripts. The Modes of Thought course was discontinued early on, but the other elements are still in place. In 2006, the reintroduction of plus/minus grading was broached by persons concerned about grade inflation. The idea was rejected by the College Curriculum Council after canvassing alumni, faculty, and students, including the original authors of the Magaziner-Maxwell Report.[37] Slavery and Justice report[edit] This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (December 2019) In 2003, then-University president Ruth Simmons launched a steering committee to study the school's eighteenth-century ties to slavery with a report released four years later.[38] It prompted self-examination at other US institutions of higher learning and got the school to establish a Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice.[39] Coat of arms[edit] Seal of the university Brown University's coat of arms is a white field divided into four sectors by a red cross; within each sector is an open book. Above the shield is a crest consisting of the upper half of a sun in splendor among the clouds atop a red and white torse. The sun and clouds represent "learning piercing the clouds of ignorance." The cross is believed to be a Saint George's Cross, and the open books represent learning.[40] Campus[edit] Robinson Hall, built 1875–78, designed by Walker and Gould, an octagonal building in the Venetian Gothic style. It is an example of the panoptic principle in library design inspired by the British Museum reading room[41] Brown is the largest institutional landowner in Providence, with properties on College Hill and in the Jewelry District.[42] The College Hill campus was built contemporarily with the eighteenth- and nineteenth-century precincts that surround it, so that University buildings blend with the architectural fabric of the city. The only indicator of "campus" is a brick and wrought-iron fence on Prospect, George, and Waterman streets, enclosing the College Green and Front Green. The character of Brown's urban campus is then European organic rather than American landscaped. Main campus[edit] Further information: List of Brown University buildings The main campus, comprising 235 buildings and 143 acres (0.58 km2), is on College Hill in Providence's East Side. It is reached from downtown principally by three extremely steep streets—College, Waterman, and Angell—which run through the Benefit Street historic district and the campus of the Rhode Island School of Design. College Street, culminating with Van Wickle Gates at the top of the hill, is especially beautiful and is the setting for the Convocation and Commencement processions. At Convocation, new students march through Van Wickle Gates, built 1900–01, designed by Hoppin and Ely of Providence and Hoppin and Koen of New York.[43] The gates were the gift of Augustus Stout Van Wickle, class of 1876, who also gave the FitzRandolph Gateway at Princeton, built 1905, as a memorial to his ancestor Nathaniel FitzRandolph Van Wickle Gates Main article: Van Wickle Gates The Van Wickle Gates, dedicated on June 18, 1901, have a pair of smaller side gates that are open year-round, and a large central gate that is opened two days a year for Convocation and Commencement. At Convocation the gate opens inward to admit the procession of new students. At Commencement, the gate opens outward for the procession of graduates.[44] A Brown superstition is that students who walk through the central gate a second time prematurely will not graduate, although walking backward is said to cancel the hex. Members of the Brown University Band famously flout the superstition by walking through the gate three times too many, as they annually play their role in the Commencement parade. Carrie Tower, built 1904 in English Baroque style, is a memorial to Caroline Mathilde Brown, granddaughter of Nicholas Brown, class of 1786, for whom the University is named The core green spaces of the main campus are the Front (or "Quiet") Green, the College (or "Main") Green, and the Ruth J. Simmons Quadrangle (until 2012 called Lincoln Field). The old buildings on these three greens are the most photographed. The College Green includes sculptures by noted artists Henry Moore and Giuseppe Penone.[45] Adjacent to this older campus are, to the south, academic buildings and residential quadrangles, including Wriston, Keeney, and Gregorian quadrangles; to the east, Sciences Park occupying two city blocks; to the north, connected to Simmons Quadrangle by The Walk, academic and residential precincts, including the life sciences complex and the Pembroke Campus; and to the west, on the slope of College Hill, academic buildings, including List Art Center and the Hay and Rockefeller libraries. Also on the slope of College Hill, contiguous with Brown, is the campus of the Rhode Island School of Design. The John Hay Library, built 1910, designed by Shepley, Rutan and Coolidge in the English Renaissance style, is home to rare books, special collections, and the University archives John Hay Library Main article: John Hay Library The John Hay Library is the second oldest library on campus. It was opened in 1910 and named for John Hay (class of 1858, private secretary to Abraham Lincoln and Secretary of State under two Presidents) at the request of his friend Andrew Carnegie, who contributed half of the $300,000 cost of the building.[46] It is now the repository of the University's archives, rare books and manuscripts, and special collections. Noteworthy among the latter are the Anne S. K. Brown Military Collection[47] (described as "the foremost American collection of material devoted to the history and iconography of soldiers and soldiering"), the Harris Collection of American Poetry and Plays (described as "the largest and most comprehensive collection of its kind in any research library"), the Lownes Collection of the History of Science (described as "one of the three most important private collections of books of science in America"), and (for popularity of requests) the papers of H. P. Lovecraft. The Hay Library is home to one of the broadest collections of incunabula (15th-century printed books) in the Americas, as well as such rarities as the manuscript of Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four and a Shakespeare First Folio. There are also three books bound in human skin.[48] The John Carter Brown Library on the College Green, built 1898–1904, designed by Shepley, Rutan and Coolidge in the Beaux-Arts style, is one of the world's leading repositories of ancient books and maps relating to the exploration and natural history of the Americas[49] John Carter Brown Library Main article: John Carter Brown Library The John Carter Brown Library, founded in 1846, is administered separately from the University but has been located on the Main Green of the campus since 1904. It is generally regarded as the world's leading collection of primary historical sources about the Americas before 1825. It houses a very large percentage of the titles published before that date about the discovery, settlement, history, and natural history of the New World. The "JCB", as it is known, published the 29-volume Bibliotheca Americana, a principal bibliography in the field. Typical of its noteworthy holdings is the best preserved of the eleven surviving copies of the Bay Psalm Book the earliest extant book printed in British North America and the most expensive printed book in the world.[50] There is also a very fine Shakespeare First Folio, added to the collection by John Carter Brown's widow (a Shakespeare enthusiast) on the grounds that it includes The Tempest, a play set in the New World. The JCB holdings comprise more than 50,000 early titles and about 16,000 modern books, as well as prints, manuscripts, maps, and other items in the library's specialty. Manning now houses the Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology. On the Front Green at the top of College Hill are Hope College (left), built 1821–22, and Manning Hall, built 1834–35, designed by Russell Warren. Both buildings were the gift of Nicholas Brown, Junior Haffenreffer Museum[edit] Main article: Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology The exhibition galleries of the Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology, Brown's teaching museum, are located in Manning Hall on the campus's main green. Its one million artifacts, available for research and educational purposes, are located at its Collections Research Center in Bristol, RI. The museum's goal is to inspire creative and critical thinking about culture by fostering an interdisciplinary understanding of the material world. It provides opportunities for faculty and students to work with collections and the public, teaching through objects and programs in classrooms and exhibitions. The museum sponsors lectures and events in all areas of anthropology, and also runs an extensive program of outreach to local schools. Annmary Brown Memorial[edit] Main article: Annmary Brown Memorial The Annmary Brown Memorial, designed by Norman Isham in 1903. The Annmary Brown Memorial was constructed from 1903 to 1907 by the politician, Civil War veteran, and book collector General Rush Hawkins, as a mausoleum for his wife, Annmary Brown, a member of the Brown family. In addition to its crypt—the final repository for Brown and Hawkins—the Memorial includes works of art from Hawkins's private collection, including paintings by Angelica Kauffman, Peter Paul Rubens, Gilbert Stuart, Giovanni Battista Tiepolo, Benjamin West, and Eastman Johnson, among others. His collection of over 450 incunabula (materials printed in Europe before 1501) was relocated to the John Hay Library in 1990.[51] Today the Memorial is home to Brown's Medieval Studies and Renaissance Studies programs. The Walk[edit] Brown Commencements have been held since 1776 in the First Baptist Church in America, built 1774–75, designed by Joseph Brown. This "meeting house" was built to accommodate 1,400 people and for the dual purpose of "the publick worship of Almighty God and also for holding commencement in"[52] The "Walk" connects Pembroke Campus to the main campus. It is a succession of green spaces extending from Ruth Simmons Quadrangle (Lincoln Field) in the south to the Pembroke College monument on Meeting Street in the north. It is bordered by departmental buildings and the Granoff Center for the Creative Arts. A focal point of The Walk is Maya Lin's water-circulating topographical sculpture of Narragansett Bay, entitled "Under the Laurentide." Installed in 2015, it is next to the Institute for the Study of Environment and Society.[45] Smith-Buonanno Hall on the Pembroke Campus Miller Hall on the Pembroke Campus Pembroke campus[edit] The Women's College in Brown University, known as Pembroke College, was founded in October 1891. When it merged with Brown in 1971, the Pembroke Campus was absorbed into the Brown campus. The Pembroke campus is centered on a quadrangle that fronts on Meeting Street, where a garden and monument—with scale-model of the quadrangle in bronze—compose the formal entry to the campus. The Pembroke campus is among the most pleasing spaces at Brown, with noteworthy examples of Victorian and Georgian architecture. The west side of the quadrangle comprises Pembroke Hall (1897), Smith-Buonanno Hall (1907, formerly Pembroke Gymnasium), and Metcalf Hall (1919); the east side comprises Alumnae Hall (1927) and Miller Hall (1910); the quadrangle culminates on the north with Andrews Hall (1947) and its terrace and garden. Pembroke Hall, originally a classroom building and library, now houses the Cogut Center for the Humanities. The Orwig Music Library in the former Isaac Gifford Ladd house, built 1850, acquired in 1969 when Brown bought the buildings and grounds of Bryant University on the southeast edge of the Brown campus East Campus, centered on Hope and Charlesfield streets, was originally the site of Bryant University. In 1969, as Bryant was preparing to move to Smithfield, Rhode Island, Brown bought their Providence campus for $5 million. This expanded the Brown campus by 10 acres (40,000 m2) and 26 buildings, included several historic houses, notably the Isaac Gifford Ladd house, built 1850 (now Brown's Orwig Music Library), and the Robert Taft House, built 1895 (now King House). The area was named East Campus in 1971. Thayer Street runs through Brown's main campus, north to south, and is College Hill's reduced-scale counterpart to Harvard Square or Berkeley's Telegraph Avenue. Restaurants, cafes, bistros, taverns, pubs, bookstores, second-hand shops, and the like abound. Tourists, people-watchers, buskers, and students from Providence's six colleges make the scene. Half a mile south of campus is Thayer Street's hipper cousin, Wickenden Street. More picturesque and with older architecture, it features galleries, pubs, specialty shops, artist-supply stores, and a regionally famous coffee shop that doubles as a film set (for Woody Allen and others). Brown Stadium, which was built in 1925 and is home to the football team, is located approximately a mile to the northeast of the main campus. Marston Boathouse, the home of the crew teams, lies on the Blackstone/Seekonk River, to the southeast of campus. Brown's Warren Alpert Medical School is situated in the historic Jewelry District of Providence, near the medical campus of Brown's teaching hospitals, Rhode Island Hospital, Women and Infants Hospital, and Hasbro Children's Hospital. Other University research facilities in the Jewelry District include the Laboratories for Molecular Medicine. Brown's School of Public Health occupies a landmark modernist building overlooking Memorial Park on the Providence Riverwalk. Brown also owns 376-acre (1.52 km2) the Mount Hope Grant in Bristol, Rhode Island, an important Native American and King Philip's War site. Brown's Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Collection Research Center, particularly strong in Native American items, is located in the Mount Hope Grant. Academics[edit] Presidents[edit] 19th Brown president Christina Hull Paxson, 2012 to present 2nd Brown president, Jonathan Maxcy, 1792–1802 was the first alum to serve as president 4th Brown president Francis Wayland, 1827–1855. His influential book Thoughts on the Present Collegiate System in the United States (1842) urged American universities to adopt a broader curriculum 18th Brown president Ruth J. Simmons, 2001–2012, was the first African-American to lead an Ivy League university Main article: List of Presidents of Brown University Brown's current president Christina Hull Paxson took office in 2012. She had previously been dean of the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University and a past-chair of Princeton's economics department.[53] In 2014 and 2015, Paxson presided over the year-long celebration of the 250th anniversary of Brown's founding. Her immediate predecessor as president was Ruth J. Simmons, the first African American president of an Ivy League institution. Simmons announced she would remain at Brown as a professor of Comparative Literature and Africana Studies.[54] However, Simmons is now the president of Prairie View A&M University, an HBCU in Texas.[55] The College[edit] Main article: College of Brown University Founded in 1764, the College is the oldest school of Brown University. About 7,000 undergraduate students are currently enrolled in the College, and 81 concentrations (majors) are offered. Completed concentrations of undergraduates by area are social sciences 42 percent, humanities 26 percent, life sciences 17 percent, and physical sciences 14 percent.[56] The concentrations with the greatest number of students are Biology, History, and International Relations. Brown is one of the few schools in the United States with an undergraduate concentration (major) in Egyptology. Undergraduates can also design an independent concentration if the existing programs do not align with their curricular focus. 35 percent of undergraduates pursue graduate or professional study immediately, 60 percent within 5 years, and 80 percent within 10 years.[57] For the Class of 1998, 75 percent of all graduates have since enrolled in a graduate or professional degree program.[58] The degrees acquired were doctoral 22 percent, master's 35 percent, medicine 28 percent, and law 14 percent.[58] The highest fields of employment for graduates of the College are business 36 percent, education 19 percent, health/medical 6 percent, arts 6 percent, government 6 percent, and communications/media 5 percent.[58] The List Art Center, built 1969–71, designed by Philip Johnson, houses the Department of Visual Art and the David Winton Bell Gallery, and is adjacent to the campus of the Rhode Island School of Design Brown/RISD Dual Degree Program[edit] Brown's near neighbor on College Hill is the Rhode Island School of Design (RISD). Brown and RISD students can cross-register at the two institutions, with Brown students permitted to take as many as four courses at RISD that count towards a Brown degree. The two institutions partner to provide various student-life services and the two student bodies compose a synergy in the College Hill cultural scene. After several years of discussion between the two institutions and several students pursuing dual degrees unofficially, Brown and RISD formally established a five-year dual degree program in 2007, with the first class matriculating in the fall of 2008.[59] The Brown/RISD Dual Degree Program, among the most selective in the country, offered admission to 19 of the 707 applicants for the class entering in autumn 2018, an acceptance rate of 2.7 percent.[60] It combines the complementary strengths of the two institutions, integrating studio art and design at RISD with the entire spectrum of Brown's departmental offerings. Students are admitted to the Dual Degree Program for a course lasting five years and culminating in both the Bachelor of Arts (A.B.) or Bachelor of Science (Sc.B.) degree from Brown and the Bachelor of Fine Arts (B.F.A.) degree from RISD. Prospective students must apply to the two schools separately and be accepted by separate admissions committees. Their application must then be approved by a third Brown/RISD joint committee. Admitted students spend the first year in residence at RISD completing its first-year Experimental and Foundation Studies curriculum, while taking up to three Brown classes. The second year is spent in residence at Brown, during which students take mainly Brown courses while starting on their RISD major requirements. In the third, fourth, and fifth years, students can elect to live at either school or off-campus, and course distribution is determined by the requirements of each student's unique combination of Brown concentration and RISD major. Program participants are noted for their creative and original approach to cross-disciplinary opportunities, combining, for example, industrial design with engineering, or anatomical illustration with human biology, or philosophy with sculpture, or architecture with urban studies. An annual "BRDD Exhibition" is a well-publicized and heavily attended event, drawing interest and attendees from the wider world of industry, design, the media, and the fine arts. Lyman Hall, built 1890–92, designed by Stone, Carpenter and Willson in Richardsonian Romanesque style, houses the Department of Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Theatre and playwriting[edit] Brown's theatre and playwriting programs are among the best-regarded in the country. Since 2003, eight different Brown graduates have either won (five times) or been nominated for (six times) the Pulitzer Prize—including winners Lynn Nottage '86 (twice—2009, 2017), Ayad Akhtar '93, Nilo Cruz '94, Quiara Alegría Hudes '04, Jackie Sibblies Drury MFA '04; and nominees Sarah Ruhl '97 (twice), Gina Gionfriddo '97 (twice), Stephen Karam '02, and Jordan Harrison '03. In American Theater magazine's 2009 ranking of the most-produced American plays, Brown graduates occupied four of the top five places—Peter Nachtrieb '97, Rachel Sheinkin '89, Sarah Ruhl '97, and Stephen Karam '02.[61][62] The undergraduate concentration (major) encompasses programs in theatre history, performance theory, playwriting, dramaturgy, acting, directing, dance, speech, and technical production. Applications for doctoral and master's degree programs are made through the University Graduate School. Master's degrees in acting and directing are pursued in conjunction with the Brown/Trinity Rep MFA program, which partners with one of the country's great regional theatres, Trinity Repertory Company, home of the last longstanding resident acting company in the country.[63] Trinity Rep's present artistic director Curt Columbus succeeded Oskar Eustis in 2006, when Eustis was chosen to lead New York's Public Theater. The many performance spaces available to Brown students include the Chace and Dowling theaters at Trinity Rep; the McCormack Family, Lee Strasberg, Rites and Reason, Ashamu Dance, Stuart, and Leeds theatres in University departments; the Upstairs Space and Downstairs Space belonging to the wholly student-run Production Workshop; and Alumnae Hall, used by Brown University Gilbert & Sullivan and by Brown Opera Productions. Production design courses utilize the John Street Studio of Eugene Lee, three-time Tony Award-winner. Hope College, built 1821–22 in late Federal style, was named for Hope Brown Ives, sister of Nicholas Brown, Junior, and was the first purpose-built residence hall at Brown Membership in the Brown Faculty Club is open to all faculty, staff, alumni, and Brown parents, and confers reciprocal privileges at other clubs—in North America, England, Spain, and Israel—through the Association of College and University Clubs Writing programs[edit] Writing at Brown—fiction, non-fiction, poetry, playwriting, screenwriting, electronic writing, mixed media, and the undergraduate writing proficiency requirement—is catered for by various centers and degree programs, and a faculty that has long included nationally and internationally known authors. The undergraduate concentration (major) in literary arts offers courses in fiction, poetry, screenwriting, literary hypermedia, and translation. Graduate programs include the fiction and poetry MFA writing programs in the literary arts department, and the MFA playwriting program in the theatre arts and performance studies department. The non-fiction writing program is offered in the English department. Screenwriting and cinema narrativity courses are offered in the departments of literary arts and modern culture and media. The undergraduate writing proficiency requirement is supported by the Writing Center. Author prizewinners[edit] Alumni authors take their degrees across the spectrum of degree concentrations, but a gauge of the strength of writing at Brown is the number of major national writing prizes won. To note only winners since the year 2000: Pulitzer Prize for Fiction-winners Jeffrey Eugenides '82 (2003), Marilynne Robinson '66 (2005), and Andrew Sean Greer '92 (2018); British Orange Prize-winners Marilynne Robinson '66 (2009) and Madeline Miller '00 (2012); Pulitzer Prize for Drama-winners Nilo Cruz '94 (2003), Lynn Nottage '86 (twice, 2009, 2017), Quiara Alegría Hudes '04 (2012), and Ayad Akhtar '93 (2013); Pulitzer Prize for Biography-winner David Kertzer '69 (2015); Pulitzer Prize for Journalism-winners James Risen '77 (twice, 2002, 2006), Mark Maremont '80 (twice, 2003, 2007), Gareth Cook '91 (2005), Tony Horwitz '80 (2005), Peter Kovacs '77 (2006), Stephanie Grace '86 (2006), Mary Swerczek '98 (2006), Jane B. Spencer '99 (2006), Usha Lee McFarling '89 (2007), James Bandler '89 (2007), Amy Goldstein '75 (2009), David Rohde '90 (twice, 1996, 2009), Kathryn Schulz '96 (2016), and Alissa J. Rubin '80 (2016); Pulitzer Prize for General Nonfiction-winner James Forman Jr. '88 (2018), as well as Pulitzer Prize for Poetry-winner Peter Balakian PhD '80. The Watson Center for Information Technology, built 1988, designed by Cambridge Seven Associates. It is named for Thomas J. Watson, Jr., Brown class of 1937, who led the global rise of IBM. The division of applied mathematics in the former Henry Pearce House, built 1898, designed by Frank W. Angell and Frank H. Swift, acquired by Brown in 1952 Computer science[edit] Brown began offering computer science courses through the departments of Economics and Applied Mathematics in 1956 when it acquired an IBM machine. Brown added an IBM 650 in January 1958, the only one of its type between Hartford and Boston. In 1960, Brown opened its first dedicated computer building. The building, designed by Philip Johnson and opened on George Street, received an IBM 7070 computer the next year. Brown granted computer sciences full Departmental status in 1979. In 2009, IBM and Brown announced the installation of a supercomputer (by teraflops standards), the most powerful in the southeastern New England region.[64] In the 1960s, Andries van Dam along with Ted Nelson, and Bob Wallace invented The Hypertext Editing Systems, HES and FRESS while at Brown. Nelson coined the word hypertext. Van Dam's students helped originate XML, XSLT, and related Web standards. Other Brown alumni have distinguished themselves in the computer sciences. They include a principal architect of the Classic Mac OS, a principal architect of the Intel 80386 microprocessor line, the Microsoft Windows 95 project chief, a CEO of Apple, the former head of the MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, the inaugural chair of the Computing Community Consortium, and design chiefs at Pixar and Industrial Light & Magic, protegees of graphics guru Andries van Dam. The character "Andy" in the animated film Toy Story is taken to be an homage to Van Dam from his students employed at Pixar.[65] Van Dam denies this, but a copy of his book (Computer Graphics: Principles and Practice) appears on Andy's bookshelf in the film. Brown computer science graduate and Heroes actor Masi Oka '97, was an animator at Industrial Light & Magic. The department today is home to The CAVE. This project is a virtual reality room used for everything from three-dimensional drawing classes to tours of the circulatory system for medical students. In 2000, students from Brown's Technology House converted the south face of the Sciences Library into a Tetris game, the first high-rise-building Tetris ever attempted. Code named La Bastille, the game used a personal computer running Linux, a radio-frequency video game controller, eleven circuit boards, a 12-story data network, and over 10,000 Christmas lights.[66][67] In the early 2000s the department initiated a program entitled the Industry Partners Program that partners with outside companies, typically tech companies, to expose students to career opportunities.[68] Rhode Island Hall on the College Green, built 1839–40, designed by James Bucklin in Greek Revival style to house the Natural History department, is now home to the Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology The Department of Egyptology and Assyriology in Wilbour Hall, the former Samuel Dorrance Mansion, built 1888. Wilbour Hall is named for Charles Edwin Wilbour, class of 1854, famed Egyptologist, whose collections and papers are held in the Wilbour Library in New York The Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World[edit] The Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World pursues fieldwork and excavations, regional surveys, and academic study of the archaeology and art of the ancient Mediterranean, Egypt, and Western Asia from the Levant to the Caucasus. The Institute has a very active fieldwork profile, with faculty-led excavations and regional surveys presently in Petra, Jordan, in West-Central Turkey, at Abydos in Egypt, and in Sudan, Italy, Mexico, Guatemala, Montserrat in the West Indies, and Providence, Rhode Island. The Institute's faculty includes cross-appointments from the departments of Egyptology, Assyriology, Classics, Anthropology, and History of Art and Architecture. Faculty research and publication areas include Greek and Roman art and architecture, landscape archaeology, urban and religious architecture of the Levant, Roman provincial studies, the Aegean Bronze Age, and the archaeology of the Caucasus. The Institute offers visiting teaching appointments and postdoctoral fellowships which have, in recent years, included Near Eastern Archaeology and Art, Classical Archaeology and Art, Islamic Archaeology and Art, and Archaeology and Media Studies. Egyptology and Assyriology Facing the Joukowsky Institute, across the Front Green, is the Department of Egyptology and Assyriology, formed in 2006 by the merger of Brown's renowned departments of Egyptology and History of Mathematics. It is one of only a handful of such departments in the United States. The curricular focus is on three principal areas: Egyptology (the study of the ancient languages, history, and culture of Egypt), Assyriology (the study of the ancient lands of present-day Iraq, Syria, and Turkey), and the history of the ancient exact sciences (astronomy, astrology, and mathematics). Many courses in the department are open to all Brown undergraduates without prerequisite, and include archaeology, languages, history, and Egyptian and Mesopotamian religions, literature, and science. Students concentrating (majoring) in the department choose a track of either Egyptology or Assyriology. Graduate level study comprises three tracks to the doctoral degree: Egyptology, Assyriology, or the History of the Exact Sciences in Antiquity. The Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs, built 2000–2002, designed by Rafael Viñoly The Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs[edit] Main article: Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs The Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs is a center for the study of global issues and public affairs and is one of the leading institutes of its type in the country. It occupies an architecturally distinctive building designed by Uruguayan architect Rafael Viñoly. The Institute was initially endowed by Thomas Watson, Jr., Brown class of 1937, former Ambassador to the Soviet Union, and longtime president of IBM. Institute faculty includes, or formerly included, Italian prime minister and European Commission president Romano Prodi,[69] Brazilian president Fernando Henrique Cardoso,[70] Chilean president Ricardo Lagos Escobar,[71] Mexican novelist and statesman Carlos Fuentes,[72] Brazilian statesman and United Nations commission head Paulo Sérgio Pinheiro,[73] Indian foreign minister and ambassador to the United States Nirupama Rao,[74] American diplomat and Dayton Peace Accords author Richard Holbrooke (Brown '62),[75] and Sergei Khrushchev,[76] editor of the papers of his father Nikita Khrushchev, leader of the Soviet Union. The Institute's curricular interest is organized into the principal themes of development, security, and governance—with further focuses on globalization, economic uncertainty, security threats, environmental degradation, and poverty. Three Brown undergraduate concentrations (majors) are hosted by the Watson Institute—Development Studies, International Relations, and Public Policy. Graduate programs offered at the Watson Institute include the Graduate Program in Development (Ph.D.) and the Public Policy Program (M.P.A). The Institute also offers Post Doctoral, professional development and global outreach programming. In support of these programs, the Institute houses various centers, including the Brazil Initiative, Brown-India Initiative, China Initiative, Middle East Studies center, The Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies (CLACS) and the Taubman Center for Public Policy. In recent years, the most internationally cited product of the Watson Institute has been its Costs of War Project, first released in 2011 and continuously updated. The Project comprises a team of economists, anthropologists, political scientists, legal experts, and physicians, and seeks to calculate the economic costs, human casualties, and impact on civil liberties of the wars in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan since 2001. Slater Hall, built 1879, designed by Stone and Carpenter in Ruskinian Gothic style. When its foundation was dug at the south end of the College Green, neighbors objected that the Green "upon which so many are accustomed to gaze while taking daily walks" would be blocked from view, and Slater Hall was re-sited facing the Front Green Rogers Hall on the College Green, built 1862, designed by Alpheus Morse in the Italian Gothic style as a chemistry laboratory, was renamed in 1989 the Salomon Center for Teaching The School of Engineering[edit] Main article: Brown University School of Engineering Established in 1847, Brown's engineering program is the oldest in the Ivy League and the third oldest civilian engineering program in the country, preceded only by Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (1824) and Union College (1845). In 1916, the departments of electrical, mechanical, and civil engineering were merged into a Division of Engineering, and in 2010 the division was elevated to a School of Engineering. Engineering at Brown is especially interdisciplinary. The School is organized without the traditional departments or boundaries found at most schools, and follows a model of connectivity between disciplines—including biology, medicine, physics, chemistry, computer science, the humanities and the social sciences. The School practices an innovative clustering of faculties in which engineers team with non-engineers to bring a convergence of ideas. IE Brown Executive MBA Dual Degree Program[edit] Since 2009, Brown has developed an Executive MBA program in conjunction with one of the leading Business Schools in Europe; IE Business School in Madrid. This relationship has since strengthened resulting in both institutions offering a dual degree program.[77] In this partnership, Brown provides its traditional coursework while IE provides most of the business-related subjects making a differentiated alternative program to other Ivy League's EMBAs.[78] The cohort typically consists of 25-30 EMBA candidates from some 20 countries.[79] Classes are held in Providence, Madrid, Cape Town and Online. The Pembroke Center[edit] Main article: Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women The Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women was established at Brown in 1981 by Joan Wallach Scott as a research center on gender. It was named for Pembroke College, the former women's coordinate college at Brown, and is affiliated with Brown's Sarah Doyle Women's Center. It supports the undergraduate concentration in Gender and Sexuality Studies, post-doctoral research fellowships, the annual Pembroke Seminar, and other academic programs. The Center also manages various collections, archives, and resources, including the Elizabeth Weed Feminist Theory Papers and the Christine Dunlap Farnham Archive. The Graduate School[edit] Main article: Brown University Graduate School Constructed in 1792, the Nightingale–Brown House, the longtime family seat of the Brown family, is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, and is home to Brown's John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage. Established in 1887, the Graduate School has around 2,000 students studying over 50 disciplines. 20 different master's degrees are offered as well as Ph.D. degrees in over 40 subjects ranging from applied mathematics to public policy. Overall, admission to the Graduate School is most competitive with an acceptance rate of about 10 percent. The Ship Street Farmer's Market in front of the Medical Education Building on the campus of Brown's Alpert Medical School in the Jewelry District Brown's School of Public Health on the Riverwalk in Providence occupies a building designed by Edward Larrabee Barnes Alpert Medical School[edit] Main article: Alpert Medical School The University's medical program started in 1811, but the school was suspended by President Wayland in 1827 after the program's faculty declined to live on campus (a new requirement under Wayland). In 1975, the first M.D. degrees from the new Program in Medicine were awarded to a graduating class of 58 students. In 1991, the school was officially renamed the Brown University School of Medicine, then renamed once more to Brown Medical School in October 2000.[80] In January 2007, Warren Alpert donated $100 million to Brown Medical School, in recognition of which its name was changed to the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. In 2014, U.S. News & World Report ranked Brown's medical school the 5th most selective in the country, with an acceptance rate of 2.9 percent.[81] U.S. News ranks it 31st for research and 21st in primary care.[82] The medical school is known especially for its eight-year Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME), inaugurated in 1984. One of the most selective and renowned programs of its type in the country, it offered admission to 90 of the 2,290 applicants for the class entering in autumn 2015, an acceptance rate of 3.9 percent.[60] Since 1976, the Early Identification Program (EIP) has encouraged Rhode Island residents to pursue careers in medicine by recruiting sophomores from Providence College, Rhode Island College, the University of Rhode Island, and Tougaloo College. In 2004, the school once again began to accept applications from premedical students at other colleges and universities via AMCAS like most other medical schools. The medical school also offers combined degree programs leading to the M.D./Ph.D., M.D./M.P.H. and M.D./M.P.P. degrees. The Marine Biological Laboratory[edit] Main article: Marine Biological Laboratory The Marine Biological Laboratory (MBL) is an independent research institution established in 1882 at Woods Hole, Massachusetts. The laboratory is linked to 54 current or past Nobel Laureates who have been research or teaching faculty. Since 2005, the MBL and Brown have collaborated in a Ph.D. program in biological and environmental sciences that combines faculty at both institutions, including the faculties of the Ecosystems Center, the Bay Paul Center, the Program in Cellular Dynamics, and the Marine Resources Center. Online Programs[edit] The building in which the School of Professional Studies resides. The Brown University School of Professional Studies currently offers blended learning Executive master's degrees in Healthcare Leadership, Cyber Security, and Science and Technology Leadership.[83] The master's degrees are designed to help students who have a job and life outside of academia to progress in their respective fields. The students meet in Providence, RI every 6–7 weeks for a week seminar each trimester. The University has also invested in MOOC development starting in 2013, when two courses, Archeology's Dirty Little Secrets and The Fiction of Relationship, both of which received thousands of students.[84] However, after a year of courses, the University broke its contract with Coursera and revamped its online persona and MOOC development department. By 2017, the University released new courses on edx, two of which were The Ethics of Memory and Artful Medicine: Art's Power to Enrich Patient Care. In January 2018, Brown published its first "game-ified" course called Fantastic Places, Unhuman Humans: Exploring Humanity Through Literature, which featured out of platform games to help learners understand materials, as well as a story-line that immerses users into a fictional world to help characters along their journey.[85] Admissions and financial aid[edit] Fall Admission Statistics 2019[86] 2018[87] 2017[88] 2016[89][90] 2015[91] 2014[92] 2013[93] 2012[94] Applicants 38,674 35,437 32,723 32,390 30,396 30,431 28,919 28,742 Admits 2, 551 2,718 2,779 3,014 2,875 2,661 2,654 2,759 Admit rate 6.6% 7.7% 8.5% 9.3% 9.5% 8.7% 9.2% 9.6% Enrolled N/A 1,657 1,639 1,681 1,615 1,561 1,543 1,539 SAT range N/A 1420-1550 1405-1570[a] 2060-2350 2060-2340 2000-2330 2000-2310 1990-2310 ACT range N/A 32-35 31-35 31-34 31-34 30-34 29-34 29-34 For the undergraduate class of 2022 (enrolling in Fall 2018), Brown received 35,438 applications, the largest applicant pool in the University's history. 2,566 were accepted for an acceptance rate of 7.2%, the lowest in university history.[87] Additionally, for the academic year 2015-16 there were 1,834 transfer applicants, of whom 8.9% were accepted, with an SAT range of 2180–2330, ACT range of 31–34, and average college GPA of 3.85.[95] In 2017, the Graduate School accepted 11% of 9,215 applicants.[96] In 2014, U.S. News ranked Brown's Warren Alpert Medical School the 5th most selective in the country, with an acceptance rate of 2.9 percent.[81] Brown admission policy is stipulated need-blind for all domestic first-year applicants. In 2017, Brown announced that loans would be eliminated from all undergraduate financial aid awards starting in 2018–2019, as part of a new $30 million campaign called the Brown Promise.[97] In 2016–17, the university awarded need-based scholarships worth $120.5 million. The average need-based award for the class of 2020 was $47,940.[98] Sustainability[edit] Brown has committed to "minimize its energy use, reduce negative environmental impacts and promote environmental stewardship."[99] The Energy and Environmental Advisory Committee has developed a set of ambitious goals for the university to reduce its carbon emissions and eventually achieve carbon neutrality. The "Brown is Green" website collects information about Brown's progress toward greenhouse gas emissions reductions and related campus initiatives, such as student groups, courses, and research.[100] Brown's grade of A-minus was the top one issued in the 2009 report of the Sustainable Endowments Institute (no A-grade was issued).[101] Brown has a number of active environmental leadership groups on campus.[102] These groups have begun a number of campus-wide environmental initiatives—including promoting the reduction of supply and demand of bottled water and investigating a composting program. According to the A. W. Kuchler U.S. potential natural vegetation types, Brown University would have a dominant vegetation type of Appalachian Oak (104) with a dominant vegetation form of Eastern Hardwood Forest (25).[103] Athletics[edit] Main article: Brown Bears A stereoscopic image of the Brown freshman crew in competition at Lake Quinsigamond, Mass., on July 22, 1870. Brown rowing, among the pioneer programs in the country, dates from June 1857. Its first three-school regatta was held with Harvard and Yale at Lake Quinsigamond on July 27, 1859[104] The 1879 Brown baseball varsity, with W.E. White seated second from right. White's appearance in an 1879 major league game may have broken baseball's color line 68 years before Jackie Robinson[105][106][107][108] Brown is a member of the Ivy League athletic conference, which is categorized as a Division I (top level) conference of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). The Brown Bears are the third largest university sports program in the United States, sponsoring 38 varsity intercollegiate teams (Harvard sponsors 42 and Princeton 39).[citation needed] Brown's athletic program is one of the U.S. News & World Report top 20—the "College Sports Honor Roll"—based on breadth of program and athletes' graduation rates. Brown's newest varsity team is women's rugby, promoted from club-sport status in 2014. Brown women's rowing has won 7 national titles between 1999 and 2011.[109] Brown men's rowing perennially finishes in the top 5 in the nation, most recently winning silver, bronze, and silver in the national championship races of 2012, 2013, and 2014. The men's and women's crews have also won championship trophies at the Henley Royal Regatta and the Henley Women's Regatta. Brown's men's soccer is consistently ranked in the top 20,[citation needed] and has won 18 Ivy League titles overall; recent[when?] soccer graduates play professionally in Major League Soccer and overseas. Brown football, under its most successful coach historically, Phil Estes, won Ivy League championships in 1999, 2005, and 2008. (Brown football's reemergence is credited to its 1976 Ivy League championship team, "The Magnificent Andersons," so named for its coach, John Anderson.) High-profile alumni of the football program include Houston Texans head coach Bill O'Brien; former Penn State football coach Joe Paterno, Heisman Trophy namesake John W. Heisman, and Pollard Award namesake Fritz Pollard. The Men's Lacrosse team also has a long and storied history. Brown women's gymnastics won the Ivy League tournament in 2013 and 2014. Brown varsity equestrian has won the Ivy League championship several times.[110] Brown also supports competitive intercollegiate club sports, including sailing and ultimate frisbee. The men's ultimate team, Brownian Motion, has won three national championships, in 2000, 2005 and 2019.[111] The Brown women's sailing team has won 5 national championships, most recently in 2019[112] while the coed sailing team won 2 national championships in 1942 and 1948.[113] Both teams are consistency ranked in the top 10 in the nation.[114] The first intercollegiate ice hockey game in America was played between Brown and Harvard on January 19, 1898.[115] The first university rowing regatta larger than a dual-meet was held between Brown, Harvard, and Yale at Lake Quinsigamond in Massachusetts on July 26, 1859.[116][117] Student life[edit] Campus safety[edit] In 2014, Brown University tied with the University of Connecticut for the highest number of reported rapes in the nation, with its "total of reports of rape" on their main campus standing at 43.[118] Spring weekend[edit] The weekend includes an annual spring concert festival that has featured numerous famous artists. Residential and Greek societies[edit] Ladd Observatory, built 1890–1891, is on the National Register of Historic Places. About 12 percent of Brown students are in fraternities and sororities. There are 11 residential Greek houses: six fraternities (Beta Rho Pi, Delta Phi, Delta Tau, Phi Kappa Psi, Sigma Chi, and Theta Delta Chi; four sororities (Alpha Chi Omega, Kappa Alpha Theta, Delta Gamma, and Kappa Delta), one co-ed house (Zeta Delta Xi), and one co-ed literary society (Alpha Delta Phi). Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity was present on campus from 1906 to 1939, but was unable to reactivate after World War II due to wartime losses.[119] All recognized Greek-letter organizations are located on campus in Wriston Quadrangle in university-owned housing. They are overseen by the Greek Council. An alternative to Greek-letter organizations are the program houses organized by themes. As with Greek houses, the residents of program houses select their new members, usually at the start of the spring semester. Examples of program houses are St. Anthony Hall (located in King House), Buxton International House, the Machado French/Hispanic/Latinx House, Technology House, Harambee (African culture) House, Social Action House and Interfaith House. Currently,[when?] there are three student cooperative houses at Brown. Two of them, Watermyn and Finlandia on Waterman Street, are owned by the Brown Association for Cooperative Housing (BACH), a non-profit corporation owned by its members. The third co-op, West House, is located in a Brown-owned house on Brown Street. The three organizations run a vegetarian co-op for the larger community. All students not in program housing enter a lottery for general housing. Students form groups and are assigned time slots during which they can pick among the remaining housing options. The largest surviving Hutchings-Votey organ in the world is in Sayles Hall.[120] It has 3,355 pipes and weighs 25 tons. It is pictured here for Brown's traditional Halloween midnight concert. Societies and clubs[edit] The earliest societies at Brown were devoted to oration and debate. The Pronouncing Society is mentioned in the diary of Solomon Drowne, class of 1773, who was voted its president in 1771. It seems to have disappeared during the American Revolutionary War. We next hear of the Misokosmian Society, founded in 1794 and renamed the Philermenian Society in 1798. This was effectively a secret society with membership limited to 45. It met fortnightly to hear speeches and debate and thrived until the Civil War; in 1821 its library held 1594 volumes. In 1799, a chapter of the Philandrian Society, also secret, was established at the College. In 1806, the United Brothers was formed as an egalitarian alternative to the Philermenian Society. "These two great rivals," says the University historian, "divided the student body between them for many years, surviving into the days of President Sears. A tincture of political controversy sharpened their rivalry, the older society inclining to the aristocratic Federals, the younger to the Republicans, the democrats of that day. ... The students continuing to increase in number, they outran the constitutional limits of both societies, and a third, the Franklin Society, was established in 1824; it never had the vitality of the other two, however, and died after ten years."[121] Other nineteenth century clubs and societies, too numerous to treat here, are described in Bronson's history of the University.[122] The sesquicentennial poster The Cammarian Club—founded in 1893 and taking its name from the Latin for lobster, its members' favorite dinner food—was at first a semi-secret society which "tapped" 15 seniors each year. In 1915, self-perpetuating membership gave way to popular election by the student body, and thenceforward the Club served as the de facto undergraduate student government. In 1971, unaccountably, it voted the name Cammarian Club out of existence, thereby amputating its tradition and longevity. The successor and present-day organization is the generically-named Undergraduate Council of Students. Societas Domi Pacificae, known colloquially as "Pacifica House," is a present-day, self-described secret society, which nonetheless publishes a website and an email address. It claims a continuous line of descent from the Franklin Society of 1824, citing a supposed intermediary "Franklin Society" traceable in the nineteenth century. But the intermediary turns out to be, on closer inspection, the well-known Providence Franklin Society, a civic organization unconnected to Brown whose origins and activity are well-documented. It was founded in 1821 by merchants William Grinnell and Joseph Balch, Jr., and chartered by the General Assembly in January 1823.[123] The "Pacifica House" account of this (conflated) Franklin Society cites published mentions of it in 1859, 1876, and 1883. But the first of these (Rhees 1859, see footnote infra) is merely a sketch of the 1824 Brown organization; the second (Stockwell 1876) is a reference-book article on the Providence Franklin Society itself; and the third is the Providence Franklin Society's own publication, which the "Pacifica House" reference mis-ascribes to the "Franklin Society," dropping the word "Providence."[124] Student organizations[edit] See also: Category:Brown University organizations There are over 300 registered student organizations on campus with diverse interests. The Student Activities Fair, during the orientation program, provides first-year students the opportunity to become acquainted with the wide range of organizations. A sample of organizations includes: Brown University Undergraduate Council of Students The College Hill Independent Brown Badmaash Dance Company The Brown Daily Herald Brown Debating Union The Brown Derbies Brown International Organization Brown Journal of World Affairs The Brown Jug The Brown Noser Brown Opera Productions Brown Political Review The Brown Spectator BSR Brown University Band Brown University Orchestra The Chattertocks of Brown University Chinese Students and Scholars Association The College Hill Independent Critical Review Ivy Film Festival Jabberwocks Production Workshop Starla and Sons Students for Sensible Drug Policy WBRU Resource centers[edit] Brown University has several resource centers on campus. The centers often act as sources of support as well as safe spaces for students to explore certain aspects of their identity. Additionally, the centers often provide physical spaces for students to study and have meetings. Although most centers are identity-focused, some provide academic support as well. The Brown Center for Students of Color The Brown Center for Students of Color (BCSC) is a space that provides support for students of color. Established in 1972 at the demand of student protests, the BCSC encourages students to engage in critical dialogue, develop leadership skills, and promote social justice.[125] The center houses various programs for students to share their knowledge and engage in discussion. Programs include the Third World Transition Program, the Minority Peer Counselor Program, the Heritage Series, and other student-led initiatives. Additionally, the BCSC hopes to foster community among the students it serves by providing spaces for students to meet and study. The Sarah Doyle Women's Center aims to provide a space for members of the Brown community to examine and explore issues surrounding gender.[126] The center was named after one of the first women to attend Brown University, Sarah Doyle. The center emphasizes intersectionality in its conversations on gender, encouraging people to see gender as present and relevant in various aspects of life. The center hosts programs and workshops in order to facilitate dialogue and provide resources for students, faculty, and staff.[127] Other centers include the LGBTQ+ Center, the First-Generation College and Low-Income Student (FLi) Center, and the Curricular Resource Center. Rankings[edit] University rankings National ARWU[128] 38 Forbes[129] 7 Times/WSJ[130] 7 U.S. News & World Report[131] 14 Washington Monthly[132] 28 Global ARWU[133] 84 QS[134] 57 Times[135] 53 U.S. News & World Report[136] 102 University Hall, built 1770–1771, designed by a committee that included Joseph Brown, is on the National Register of Historic Places USNWR graduate school rankings[137] Engineering 51 Medicine: Primary Care 35 Medicine: Research 38 USNWR departmental rankings[137] Applied Mathematics 4 Biological Sciences 33 Chemistry 59 Computer Science 25 Earth Sciences 15 Economics 19 English 13 History 16 Mathematics 14 Physics 35 Political Science 40 Psychology 26 Public Affairs 53 Public Health 17 Sociology 24 Statistics 44 The Forbes magazine annual ranking of "America's Top Colleges 2019"—which ranked 650 research universities, liberal arts colleges and service academies—ranked Brown 7th overall and 7th among universities.[138] U.S. News & World Report ranked Brown 14th among national universities in its 2020 edition.[139] The 2020 edition also ranked Brown tied at 3rd for undergraduate teaching, 15th in Most Innovative Schools, and 16th in Best Value Schools.[139] Washington Monthly ranked Brown 28th among 395 national universities in the U.S. based on its contribution to the public good, as measured by social mobility, research, and promoting public service.[140] In 2014, National Science Foundation ranked Brown University 66th in the United States by research.[141] For 2017, U.S. News & World Report ranks Brown University 85th globally.[142] In 2014, Forbes magazine ranked Brown 7th on its list of "America's Most Entrepreneurial Universities".[143] The Forbes analysis looked at the ratio of "alumni and students who have identified themselves as founders and business owners on LinkedIn" and the total number of alumni and students. LinkedIn particularized the Forbes rankings, placing Brown third (between MIT and Princeton) among "Best Undergraduate Universities for Software Developers at Startups." LinkedIn's methodology involved a career-path examination of "millions of alumni profiles" in its membership database.[144] In 2017, U.S. News ranked Brown's Warren Alpert Medical School the 7th most selective in the country, tied with the UC Davis School of Medicine and the UCLA School of Medicine, with an acceptance rate of 2.7 percent.[145] Notable people[edit] Main article: List of Brown University people Alumni in politics include U.S. Secretary of State John Hay (1852), U.S. Secretary of State and Attorney General Richard Olney (1856), Chief Justice of the United States and U.S. Secretary of State Charles Evans Hughes (1881), Senator Maggie Hassan '80 of New Hampshire, Governor Jack Markell '82 of Delaware, Rhode Island Representative David Cicilline '83, Minnesota Representative Dean Phillips '91, 2020 Presidential candidate and entrepreneur Andrew Yang '96, and DNC Chair Tom Perez '83. Prominent alumni in business and finance include philanthropist John D. Rockefeller Jr. (1897), Chair of the Federal Reserve Janet Yellen '67, World Bank President Jim Yong Kim '82, Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan '81, CNN founder and America's Cup yachtsman Ted Turner '60, IBM chairman and CEO Thomas Watson, Jr. '37, Apple Inc. CEO John Sculley '61, Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi '91,[146][147] and magazine editor John F. Kennedy, Jr. '83. Important figures in the history of education include the father of American public school education Horace Mann (1819), civil libertarian and Amherst College president Alexander Meiklejohn, first president of the University of South Carolina Jonathan Maxcy (1787), Bates College founder Oren B. Cheney (1836), University of Michigan president (1871–1909) James Burrill Angell (1849), University of California president (1899–1919) Benjamin Ide Wheeler (1875), and Morehouse College's first African-American president John Hope (1894). Alumni in the computer sciences and industry include architect of Intel 386, 486, and Pentium microprocessors John H. Crawford '75, and inventor of the first silicon transistor Gordon Kidd Teal '31. Alumni in the arts and media include actress Jessica Capshaw '98, actor Daveed Diggs '04,[148] actress Emma Watson '14, NPR program host Ira Glass '82, singer-composer Mary Chapin Carpenter '81, humorist and Marx Brothers screenwriter S.J. Perelman '25, novelists Nathanael West '24, Jeffrey Eugenides '83, Edwidge Danticat (MFA '93), and Marilynne Robinson '66; actress Jo Beth Williams '70, composer and synthesizer pioneer Wendy Carlos '62, journalist James Risen '77, political pundit Mara Liasson, MSNBC host and The Nation editor-at-large Chris Hayes '01, New York Times, publisher A. G. Sulzberger '04, and actress Julie Bowen '91. Other notable alumni include "Lafayette of the Greek Revolution" and its historian Samuel Gridley Howe (1821) Governor of Wyoming Territory and Governor of Nebraska John Milton Thayer (1841), Governor of Rhode Island Augustus Bourn (1855), NASA head during first seven Apollo missions Thomas O. Paine '42, diplomat Richard Holbrooke '62, sportscaster Chris Berman '77, Houston Texans head coach Bill O'Brien '92, 2018 Miss America Cara Mund '16, Penn State football coach Joe Paterno '50, Heisman Trophy namesake John W. Heisman '91, Olympic and world champion triathlete Joanna Zeiger, royals and nobles such as Prince Rahim Aga Khan, Prince Faisal bin Al Hussein of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Princess Leila Pahlavi of Iran '92, Prince Nikolaos of Greece and Denmark, Prince Nikita Romanov, Princess Theodora of Greece and Denmark, Prince Jaime of Bourbon-Parma, Duke of San Jaime and Count of Bardi, Prince Ra'ad bin Zeid, Lady Gabriella Windsor, Prince Alexander von Fürstenberg, Countess Cosima von Bülow Pavoncelli, and her half-brother Prince Alexander-Georg von Auersperg, David Shrier, American futurist and author, and Olympic gold ('98), silver ('02), and bronze ('06) medal-winning hockey player Katie King-Crowley '97. Nobel Laureates Craig Mello '82 and Jerry White '87, Cooley–Tukey FFT algorithm co-originator John Wilder Tukey '36, biologist Stanley Falkow (PhD '59), and psychologist Aaron Beck '50. Notable past or current faculty have included Nobel Laureates Michael Kosterlitz, Lars Onsager, George Stigler, Vernon L. Smith, George Snell and Leon Cooper; Fields Medal winning mathematician David Mumford, Pulitzer Prize–winning historian Gordon S. Wood, Sakurai Prize winning physicist Gerald Guralnik, computer scientist Andries van Dam, engineer Daniel C. Drucker, sociologist Lester Frank Ward, former Prime Minister of Italy and former EU chief Romano Prodi, former President of Brazil Fernando Cardoso, former President of Chile Ricardo Lagos, writers Carlos Fuentes, Chinua Achebe, and Robert Coover, philosopher Martha Nussbaum, developmental psychologist William Damon, linguist Hans Kurath, political scientist James Morone, biologist Kenneth R. Miller, and Senior Fellow Sergei Khrushchev. This section contains an unencyclopedic or excessive gallery of images. Please help improve the section by removing excessive or indiscriminate images or by moving relevant images beside adjacent text, in accordance with the Manual of Style on use of images. (October 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Horace Mann, class of 1819, regarded as the father of American public education Janet Yellen, class of 1967, the first woman in history to head the Federal Reserve John Hay, class of 1858, private secretary to Abraham Lincoln, man of letters, Ambassador to the Court of St. James's, and Secretary of State under Presidents McKinley and Roosevelt Jim Yong Kim, class of 1982, President of the World Bank, emeritus president of Dartmouth College, and first Asian-American president of an Ivy League institution John D. Rockefeller Jr., class of 1897, developer and sole financier of Rockefeller Center, philanthropist who gave away half a billion dollars during his life Thomas Watson, Jr., class of 1937, led the global rise of IBM and is one of Time's "100 most influential people of the 20th century"[149] Charles Evans Hughes, class of 1881, Chief Justice of the United States and U.S. Secretary of State Ted Turner, class of 1960, philanthropist, America's Cup–winning yachtsman, and founder of CNN Samuel Gridley Howe, class of 1821, abolitionist, pioneer advocate for the blind, "Lafayette of the Greek Revolution" and its historian Alexander Meiklejohn, class of 1893, philosopher, education reformer, president of Amherst College, his ideas are celebrated in the Meiklejohn Freedom Award of the AAUP Tracee Ellis Ross, class of 1994, Award-winning actress, model, comedienne, and television host. Dara Khosrowshahi, class of 1991, CEO of Uber Daveed Diggs, class of 2004, Grammy and Tony Award-winning rapper and actor, known for playing the Marquis de Lafayette/Thomas Jefferson on musical Hamilton Cecile Richards, class of 1980, former President of Planned Parenthood Jeffrey Eugenides, class of 1982, Pulitzer Prize-winning novelist John Krasinski, class of 2001, Award-winning actor on the NBC sitcom The Office (2005–2013), cinematographer, and director Emma Watson class of 2014, actress, model, activist In popular culture[edit] Main article: Brown University in popular culture Brown's reputation as an institution with a free-spirited, iconoclastic student body is portrayed in fiction and popular culture.[150] Family Guy character Brian Griffin is a Brown alumnus.[151] The O.C.'s main character Seth Cohen is denied acceptance to Brown while his girlfriend Summer Roberts is accepted.[152] In The West Wing, Amy Gardner is a Brown alumna. In Gossip Girl, New York socialite Serena vies with her friends for a spot at Brown. See also[edit] Renewable energy portal List of Brown University statues Brown University Alma Mater Josiah S. Carberry Notes[edit] ^ As of Fall 2017, SAT scores for the incoming class were calculated on a 1600-point scale instead of the old 2400-point scale. References[edit] Citations[edit] ^ "Brown University Admission Facts and Figures". Brown University. Archived from the original on July 8, 2012. Retrieved October 8, 2014. ^ As of June 30, 2019. Comtois, James (September 27, 2019). "Brown University endowment gains 12.4% for fiscal year". Pensions&Investments. Archived from the original on September 27, 2019. Retrieved September 27, 2019. ^ Nickel, Mark. "Locke named 13th provost of Brown University". News from Brown. Brown University. Archived from the original on September 5, 2015. Retrieved September 14, 2015. Richard M. Locke ... has been appointed provost of the University ... [starting] July 1, 2015 ^ "Brown at a Glance". Brown University. Retrieved March 13, 2020. ^ a b c "Common Data Set 2018-2019" (PDF). Brown University. Retrieved March 13, 2020. ^ "Brown Visual Identity Policy" (PDF). ^ "Encyclopedia Brunoniana | Bicentennial celebration". Brown University. Archived from the original on May 28, 2010. Retrieved July 9, 2009. ^ Bronson (1914), p. 30. ^ Bronson, Walter C., The History of Brown University. Providence: Published by the University, 1914, pages 407-408 ^ "Encyclopedia Brunoniana | Curriculum". Brown University. Archived from the original on July 20, 2014. Retrieved December 27, 2014. ^ Goldstein, Li (March 28, 2019). "University accepts record-low 6.6 percent of applicants to class of 2023". Brown Daily Herald. Archived from the original on March 29, 2019. Retrieved March 29, 2019. ^ "Providence, Rhode Island - Neighborhood Services - College Hill". City of Providence. Archived from the original on October 13, 2014. Retrieved October 8, 2014. ^ "Awards & Honors: National Humanities Medals". Archived from the original on March 15, 2015. Retrieved December 15, 2014. ^ "The 20 Universities That Have Produced the Most Billionaires". Business Insider. September 7, 2014. Archived from the original on July 17, 2015. Retrieved July 26, 2015. ^ "Colleges and Universities with U.S. Rhodes Scholarship Winners | The Rhodes Scholarships". www.rhodesscholar.org. Archived from the original on July 26, 2016. Retrieved August 6, 2016. ^ "Statistics". www.marshallscholarship.org. Archived from the original on January 26, 2017. Retrieved December 12, 2016. ^ "Class of 2015 graduate awarded prestigious Marshall Scholarship". Archived from the original on December 5, 2017. Retrieved December 5, 2017. ^ "Brown eighth on list for producing most MacArthur Fellows". May 28, 2015. Archived from the original on January 27, 2016. Retrieved August 6, 2016. ^ "Prominent Brown Alumni". Brownbears.com. Archived from the original on May 25, 2016. Retrieved June 12, 2016. ^ Dexter (1916), pp. 24–25. ^ Dexter (1916), p. 25. ^ Bronson (1914), pp. 13–14. ^ Isaac Backus, A History of New-England, 3 vols. (Boston, 1777–96), vol. 2, quoted in Bronson (1914), p. 8. ^ Bronson (1914), pp. 502–503; the Charter and its drafts and associated documents are printed in Bronson (1914), pp. 493–507; and in Guild (1867), pp. 119–146. ^ a b Bronson (1914), pp. 29–33. ^ Quoted in Bronson (1914), pp. 54–55. ^ Guild (1867), pp. 233–236 & 299. ^ Bronson (1914), pp. 55–56. ^ Howell, Ricardo (July 2001). "Slavery, the Brown Family of Providence and Brown University". Brown University News Service. Archived from the original on April 9, 2008. ^ The opposing attitudes to the slave trade within the Brown family—from John Brown's unapologetic participation to Moses and Nicholas Brown's activist opposition—are described in Ricardo Howell, "Slavery, the Brown Family of Providence and Brown University" (2001, published online at Brown.edu), and in Charles Rappleye, Sons of Providence: The Brown Brothers, the Slave Trade, and the American Revolution (New York, 2006). ^ Bronson (1914), pp. 66–67. ^ Bronson (1914), p. 68. ^ a b Leubsdorf, Ben (March 2, 2005). "The New Curriculum Then". Brown Daily Herald. Archived from the original on November 10, 2017. Retrieved November 9, 2017. ^ Ira magaziner with Elliot Maxwell; et al. "Draft of a working paper for education at Brown University". Brown University Library. Retrieved December 6, 2007. ^ Mitchell, Martha (1993). "Curriculum". Encyclopedia Brunoniana. Providence, Rhode Island: Brown University Library. OCLC 31085279. Archived from the original on September 11, 2006. Retrieved December 6, 2007. ^ Leubsdorf, Ben (March 2, 2005). "The New Curriculum Then". Brown Daily Herald. Archived from the original on March 28, 2009. Retrieved December 5, 2007. ^ "Grade Inflation and the Brown Grading System: 2001–2002 Sheridan Center Research Project". The Teaching Exchange. Sheridan Center for Teaching, Brown University. Archived from the original on February 4, 2007. Retrieved December 5, 2007. ; Lutts, Chloe (March 15, 2006). "Plus/minus fails key test: Faculty could still vote to change grading system". Brown Daily Herald. Archived from the original on March 28, 2009. Retrieved December 11, 2005. ^ "Slavery and Justice" (PDF). www.brown.edu. Archived (PDF) from the original on March 30, 2016. Retrieved June 29, 2019. ^ Kiley, Gillian, "Learning from Slavery: Ruth Simmons assesses the public history movement she helped launch," Brown Alumni Magazine, January/February 2017, p.14-15 ^ "Brown University: Visual Identity and Graphic Standards". www.brown.edu. Archived from the original on March 31, 2016. Retrieved November 24, 2015. ^ "Robinson Hall" in SAH Archipedia Classic Buildings, Society of Architectural Historians (sah-archipedia.org) ^ "Brown Houses". Brown University. Archived from the original on February 16, 2008. Retrieved December 21, 2007. ^ In later sources the architects are variously given as Hoppin & Koen of New York, or Hoppin & Ely of Providence, or both. The Hoppins were brothers; in 1895 Ely had taken Francis's place in the Providence firm. The Brown Alumni Monthly (December 1900, p. 67) says both firms were the designers; The American Institute of Architects Quarterly Bulletin (vol. 4, 1903, p. 123) shows Hoppin & Ely, with Hoppin & Koen as "associated architects" ^ Mitchell, Martha. (1993). "Van Wickle Gates Archived March 3, 2016, at the Wayback Machine." Encyclopedia Brunoniana ^ a b Rubinton, Noel (October 20, 2017). "Where to See (Really See) the Art of Maya Lin". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on December 6, 2018. Retrieved December 5, 2018. ^ "From Martha Mitchell's Encyclopedia Brunoniana: John Hay Library". Brown.edu. Archived from the original on February 17, 2012. Retrieved April 1, 2012. ^ "The Anne S. K. Brown Military Collection :: Brown University Library". Dl.lib.brown.edu. Archived from the original on February 19, 2010. Retrieved February 22, 2010. ^ Johnson, M.L. (January 7, 2006). "Some of nation's best libraries have books bound in human skin". Associated Press. Archived from the original on December 31, 2015. Retrieved June 6, 2012. ^ "EBSCO Publishing and the John Carter Brown Library Join Forces to Offer Database", September 16, 2010, published online at Journals.EBSCO.com ^ BBC News, "Bay Psalm Book is most expensive printed work at $14.2m," BBC Archived July 20, 2018, at the Wayback Machine; Sothebys.com Archived September 24, 2015, at the Wayback Machine ^ "Encyclopedia Brunoniana | Annmary Brown Memorial". www.brown.edu. Archived from the original on January 23, 2019. Retrieved February 1, 2019. ^ Bronson (1914), p. 63; the quote is from the Baptist Society resolution dated February 11, 1774 ^   (March 2, 2012). "Economist Christina Hull Paxson elected 19th president of Brown University | Brown University News and Events". Media Contact: Marisa Quinn. News.brown.edu. Archived from the original on April 4, 2012. Retrieved April 1, 2012.CS1 maint: extra punctuation (link) ^ Horowitz, Alana. "Ruth Simmons Resigning". Huffington Post. Archived from the original on September 15, 2011. Retrieved September 9, 2011. ^ ""Ruth Simmons, Ph.D. Named Interim President of Prairie View A&M University : PVAMU News". www.pvamu.edu. Archived from the original on 2017-06-19. Retrieved 2017-06-20". ^ "Home" (PDF). Brown University. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 10, 2012. Retrieved October 8, 2014. ^ Brown University. "Brown University Office of Admission facts and figures". Brown.edu. Archived from the original on June 6, 2012. Retrieved April 1, 2012. ^ a b c "Home" (PDF). Brown University. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 10, 2012. Retrieved October 8, 2014. ^ "07-013 (Brown/RISD Joint Degree)". www.brown.edu. Archived from the original on August 18, 2007. Retrieved July 6, 2018. ^ a b "News from Brown - With record applications, Brown admits 2,566 to Class of 2022". www.brown.edu. Archived from the original on May 4, 2018. ^ Kathy Borchers, "Brown University turning out one exceptional playwright after another," Associated Press (Providence Journal), December 18, 2009; "Archived copy". Archived from the original on September 3, 2014. Retrieved 2014-08-28.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link) ^ "Brown alumna, emeritus faculty member capture Pulitzers for drama, poetry | Brown University". www.brown.edu. Archived from the original on April 16, 2019. Retrieved April 16, 2019. ^ Molly Lederer, "Trinity Rep is still shining after 50 years," East Side Monthly, Oct. 2013, p. 17 ^ "Brown, IBM Unveil Multimillion-Dollar Supercomputer - News from Brown". brown.edu. Archived from the original on July 24, 2015. Retrieved July 24, 2015. ^ "IMDB trivia for Toy Story page". IMDb. Archived from the original on April 13, 2015. Retrieved October 8, 2014. ^ "La Bastille: A Tech House Art Installation". Bastilleweb.techhouse.org. April 14, 2000. Archived from the original on April 12, 2012. Retrieved April 1, 2012. ^ "Play Tetris On A Building Wall ... And Steve Wozniak Will Visit You". The Mac Observer. April 25, 2000. Archived from the original on October 12, 2007. Retrieved June 12, 2007. ^ "Industry Partners Program". Archived from the original on July 25, 2019. Retrieved August 2, 2019. ^ Brown.edu Archived September 30, 2014, at the Wayback Machine ^ "Brown.edu". Archived from the original on February 22, 2019. Retrieved September 11, 2016. ^ Brown.edu Archived April 2, 2015, at the Wayback Machine ^ "The Social Fabric: Global Migration, Local Exclusions, and the New Iberoamerican Agenda". Watson Institute. April 6, 2011. Archived from the original on April 2, 2015. Retrieved March 9, 2015. ^ Brown.edu Archived September 30, 2014, at the Wayback Machine ^ "Meera and Vikram Gandhi Fellows". Brown University. Archived from the original on March 9, 2015. Retrieved March 9, 2015. ^ "Brown University community mourns loss of Richard C. Holbrooke, alumnus and career diplomat". Brown University. Archived from the original on April 2, 2015. Retrieved March 9, 2015. ^ "Sergei Khrushchev Recalls the Cuban Missile Crisis on BBC". Watson Institute. October 15, 2012. Archived from the original on April 2, 2015. Retrieved March 9, 2015. ^ Brown's website (October 2014). "IE Brown Executive MBA". Brown University News Service. Archived from the original on November 7, 2014. ^ Clark, Patrick (May 23, 2014). "Brown University Gets Into the MBA Game". Bloomberg L.P. Archived from the original on March 8, 2016. Retrieved March 9, 2015. ^ "IE Brown Executive MBA - Faqs - IE Brown Executive MBA". iebrown.com. Archived from the original on December 17, 2014. Retrieved July 24, 2015. ^ "History of the Brown Medical School". Med.brown.edu. Archived from the original on May 4, 2013. Retrieved June 6, 2012. ^ a b Smith-Barrow, Delece (March 27, 2014). "10 Medical Schools With the Lowest Acceptance Rates". U.S. News and World Report LP. Archived from the original on March 16, 2015. Retrieved August 25, 2017. ^ "Best Medical Schools (Primary Care) Ranked in 2019 - US News Rankings". Grad-schools.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com. Archived from the original on August 8, 2017. Retrieved December 15, 2017. ^ Brown School of Professional Studies, archived from the original on April 13, 2018, retrieved May 13, 2018 ^ "Brown launches two free online courses". Archived from the original on May 14, 2018. Retrieved May 13, 2018. ^ BrownX, archived from the original on May 14, 2018, retrieved May 13, 2018 ^ "Brown admits 2,551 students to the undergraduate Class of 2023". Brown University. March 28, 2019. Archived from the original on March 29, 2019. Retrieved March 29, 2019. ^ a b "With record applications, Brown admits 2,566 to Class of 2022". Brown University. Archived from the original on May 4, 2018. Retrieved May 4, 2018. ^ "Meet the Class of 2021". Brown University. Archived from the original on December 10, 2017. ^ "From largest applicant pool in history, Brown admits 2,919 to Class of 2020". Brown University. Archived from the original on June 10, 2016. Retrieved May 1, 2016. ^ "Undergraduate Admission and Financial Aid | Office of Institutional Research". www.brown.edu. Archived from the original on September 16, 2018. Retrieved September 16, 2018. ^ "Common Data Set 2015-2016, Part C" (PDF). Brown University. Archived (PDF) from the original on September 15, 2016. Retrieved July 28, 2016. ^ "Common Data Set 2014-2015, Part C" (PDF). Brown University. Archived (PDF) from the original on November 4, 2016. Retrieved July 28, 2016. ^ "Common Data Set 2013-2014, Part C" (PDF). Brown University. Archived (PDF) from the original on January 22, 2016. Retrieved July 28, 2016. ^ "Common Data Set 2012-2013, Part C" (PDF). Brown University. Archived (PDF) from the original on March 4, 2016. Retrieved July 28, 2016. ^ "Transfer Applicants - Undergraduate Admission". www.brown.edu. Archived from the original on August 26, 2016. Retrieved July 31, 2016. ^ "Facts About Brown". Brown University. Archived from the original on October 6, 2014. Retrieved October 8, 2014. ^ "Brown to eliminate loans from University undergraduate aid packages in 2018-19". Brown University. December 7, 2017. Archived from the original on January 10, 2018. Retrieved January 9, 2018. ^ "Home - Financial Aid". Brown University. Archived from the original on October 6, 2014. Retrieved October 8, 2014. ^ "Department of Facilities Management, Energy and Environmental Advisory Committee". Brown University. Archived from the original on July 24, 2008. Retrieved May 28, 2008. ^ "information on Brown's efforts to create a more sustainable environment". Brown University. Archived from the original on May 14, 2008. Retrieved May 28, 2008. ^ "College Sustainability Report Card 2009". Sustainable Endowments Institute. Archived from the original on July 17, 2008. Retrieved October 28, 2008. ^ "Brown is Green: Student Groups and Initiatives". Brown University. Archived from the original on July 4, 2012. Retrieved June 6, 2012. ^ "U.S. Potential Natural Vegetation, Original Kuchler Types, v2.0 (Spatially Adjusted to Correct Geometric Distortions)". Archived from the original on July 3, 2019. Retrieved August 14, 2019. ^ A. Joukowsky, H. Ambler, D. Philips, C. Albert, and M. Hooper, Ever True: The History of Brown Crew (Providence: Brown University Sports Foundation; Ann Arbor: Edwards Brothers, 2010) ^ Robert Siegel, "Black Baseball Pioneer William White's 1879 Game," National Public Radio, broadcast January 30, 2004 (audio at npr.org) ^ Stefan Fatsis, "Mystery of Baseball: Was William White Game's First Black?" Wall Street Journall, January 30, 2004 (online.wsj.com/news/articles/SB107541676333815810) ^ Peter Morris and Stefan Fatsis, "Baseball's Secret Pioneer: William Edward White, the first black player in major-league history," Slate, February 4, 2014; baseball-reference.com/bullpen/Bill_White_(whitebi01) ^ Rick Harris, Brown University Baseball: A Legacy of the game (Charleston: The History Press, 2012), pp. 41-3 ^ "National Champions (Teams)". Brown. Archived from the original on May 17, 2018. Retrieved May 16, 2018. ^ U.S. News & World Report. (March 18, 2002). "College Sports: Honor Roll Archived January 28, 2006, at the Wayback Machine." U.S. News & World Report ^ "2000 College". USAultimate.org. USAultimate.org. Archived from the original on March 24, 2015. Retrieved March 9, 2015. ^ "ICSA | Inter-collegiate Sailing Association". collegesailing.org. Archived from the original on April 12, 2019. Retrieved May 27, 2019. ^ "ICSA | Inter-collegiate Sailing Association". collegesailing.org. Archived from the original on April 12, 2019. Retrieved May 27, 2019. ^ "ICSA | Inter-collegiate Sailing Association". collegesailing.org. Retrieved May 27, 2019. ^ "Harvard 1897-98 Men's Ice Hockey Schedule". Harvard University. Archived from the original on March 25, 2012. Retrieved August 6, 2011. ^ Robert B. Johnson, A History of Rowing in America (1871), pp. 60-1 ^ Bronson (1914), pp. 346–347. ^ Anderson, Nick (June 7, 2016). "These colleges have the most reports of rape". Archived from the original on June 9, 2016. Retrieved June 9, 2016 – via www.washingtonpost.com. ^ Rand, Frank Prentice; Watts, Ralph; Sefton, James E. (1993). All The Phi Sigs – A History. Grand Chapter of Phi Sigma Kappa. ^ "The sound of 3,355 pipes - Today at Brown". Brown University. Archived from the original on May 22, 2015. Retrieved October 8, 2014. ^ Bronson (1914), p. 181. ^ Bronson (1914), pp. 120, 147–148, 180–182, 239–244, 348–349 & 483–484. ^ Rhode Island Historical Society, "Providence Franklin Society Records, 1826-1922," published online at [1] Archived September 24, 2015, at the Wayback Machine ^ The three cited items of "evidence" in Pacifica House publicity are William J. Rhees, Manual of Public Libraries, Institutions and Societies in the United States (Philadelphia, 1859), pp. 437-8; Thomas B. Stockwell, A History of Public Education in Rhode Island, from 1636 to 1876 (Providence, 1876), p. 246; and Providence Franklin Society, Report on the Geology of Rhode Island (Providence, 1887, commissioned 1883), for which see, e.g., Bulletin of the United States Geological Survey, no. 127 (Washington, 1896), p. 821) ^ "Frequently Asked Questions". Brown Center for Students of Color. Brown University. Archived from the original on November 23, 2014. Retrieved November 17, 2014. ^ "Welcome to the Sarah Doyle Women's Center". Sarah Doyle Women's Center. Brown University. Archived from the original on December 2, 2014. Retrieved November 26, 2014. ^ "Guiding Philosophies". Sarah Doyle Women's Center. Brown University. Archived from the original on October 12, 2014. Retrieved November 26, 2014. ^ "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2019: USA". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. Retrieved August 16, 2019. ^ "America's Top Colleges 2019". Forbes. Retrieved August 15, 2019. ^ "U.S. College Rankings 2020". Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education. Retrieved September 26, 2019. ^ "Best Colleges 2020: National University Rankings". U.S. News & World Report. Retrieved September 8, 2019. ^ "2019 National University Rankings". Washington Monthly. Retrieved August 20, 2019. ^ "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2019". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. 2019. Retrieved August 16, 2019. ^ "QS World University Rankings® 2020". Quacquarelli Symonds Limited. 2019. Retrieved June 24, 2019. ^ "World University Rankings 2020". THE Education Ltd. Retrieved September 14, 2019. ^ "Best Global Universities Rankings: 2020". U.S. News & World Report LP. Retrieved October 22, 2019. ^ a b "Brown University - U.S. News Best Grad School Rankings". U.S. News & World Report. Archived from the original on December 10, 2018. Retrieved September 12, 2019. ^ "Brown University". Forbes. August 15, 2019. Archived from the original on April 22, 2016. Retrieved September 12, 2019. ^ a b "Brown University Overall Rankings". U.S. News & World Report. Archived from the original on December 4, 2019. Retrieved September 12, 2019. ^ "2019 National University Rankings". Washington Monthly. Archived from the original on August 27, 2019. Retrieved September 12, 2019. ^ "Ncsesdata.nsf.gov". Archived from the original on January 13, 2017. Retrieved January 21, 2016. ^ "Usnews.com". Archived from the original on May 18, 2017. Retrieved August 25, 2017. ^ Liyan Chen. "Startup Schools: America's Most Entrepreneurial Universities". Forbes. Archived from the original on August 3, 2015. Retrieved July 24, 2015. ^ "LinkedIn.com". ^ "10 Medical Schools With the Lowest Acceptance Rates". U.S. News & World Report. Archived from the original on March 16, 2017. Retrieved August 27, 2017. ^ "Spinoff of Expedia Comes at Tough Time for Its Sector". The New York Times. August 8, 2005. Archived from the original on November 14, 2014. Retrieved August 28, 2017. (subscription required) ^ "Dara Khosrowshahi: Executive Profile & Biography", BusinessWeek ^ "Something Great". Brown Alumni Magazine. Archived from the original on January 1, 2018. Retrieved June 9, 2017. ^ TIME 100 Persons of the Century, June 14, 1999 ^ Shapira, Ian (February 9, 1998). "Vanity Fair names Brown most elite, explores stereotypes of Ivy League". Archived from the original on April 2, 2015. Retrieved March 1, 2015. ^ Driver, Ben (April 26, 2012). "The Not-So-Far-Fetched Fictitious Alumni and Attendees of the Ivy League, Part I of II". Archived from the original on March 6, 2015. Retrieved March 5, 2015. ^ Alvarez, Ana (April 19, 2010). "Is Brown's popularity a passing trend or here to stay?". The Brown Daily Herald. Archived from the original on April 2, 2015. Retrieved March 5, 2015. Bibliography[edit] Walter C. Bronson (1914). The History of Brown University, 1764–1914. Providence. Franklin Bowditch Dexter (1916). Extracts from the Itineraries and Other Miscellanies of Ezra Stiles, D.D., LL.D., 1755–1794. New Haven. Reuben Aldridge Guild (1867). History of Brown University, with Illustrative Documents. Providence. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Brown University. Official website Brown Athletics site  "Brown University" . The American Cyclopædia. 1879. v t e Brown University Schools College Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Engineering Research Centers Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World Athletics Ivy League Brown Bears Football Men's basketball Women's basketball Men's lacrosse Men's soccer Men's ice hockey Women's ice hockey Brown Stadium Meehan Auditorium Murray Stadium Pizzitola Sports Center Stevenson Field Campus Buildings Statues Annmary Brown Memorial Corliss–Brackett House Granoff Center Haffenreffer Museum Hay Library Hoppin House Joseph Haile House John Carter Brown Library Ladd Observatory Nightingale–Brown House Rockefeller Library Sciences Library University Hall Van Wickle Gates History History of Brown University Open Curriculum (Brown University) List of Brown University people Brown University in popular culture Alumni Faculty Presidents Student Life Alma Mater Brown Daily Herald The College Hill Independent Brown Journal of World Affairs WBRU Brown Student & Community Radio The Brown Jug The Brown Noser Brown Political Review Critical Review Organizations Brown Band University Orchestra Production Workshop Opera Productions The Chattertocks of Brown University Badmaash Dance Company Sarah Doyle Women's Center Links to related articles v t e Presidents of Brown University Manning Forbes # Howell # Maxcy Messer Wayland Sears Caswell Robinson Andrews Faunce Barbour Wriston Keeney Heffner Hornig Swearer Gregorian Gee Blumstein # Simmons Paxson Pound sign (#) denotes interim president. v t e Colleges and universities in Rhode Island Public institutions Community College of Rhode Island Naval War College Rhode Island College University of Rhode Island Private institutions Brown University Bryant University Johnson & Wales University New England Institute of Technology Providence College Rhode Island School of Design Roger Williams University Salve Regina University Professional schools Alpert Medical School Roger Williams University School of Law v t e Colonial colleges Brown Columbia Dartmouth Harvard UPenn Princeton Rutgers William & Mary Yale v t e Ivy League Brown Bears Columbia Lions Cornell Big Red Dartmouth Big Green Harvard Crimson Penn Quakers Princeton Tigers Yale Bulldogs v t e ECAC Hockey Teams Brown Bears men women Clarkson Golden Knights men women Colgate Raiders men women Cornell Big Red men women Dartmouth Big Green men women Harvard Crimson men women Princeton Tigers men women Quinnipiac Bobcats men women Rensselaer Engineers men women St. Lawrence Saints men women Union Dutchmen men women Yale Bulldogs men women Venues Meehan Auditorium (Brown) Cheel Arena (Clarkson) Class of 1965 Arena (Colgate) Lynah Rink (Cornell) Thompson Arena (Dartmouth) Bright Hockey Center (Harvard) Hobey Baker Memorial Rink (Princeton) People's United Center (Quinnipiac) Houston Field House (Rensselaer) Appleton Arena (St. Lawrence) Achilles Rink (Union) Ingalls Rink (Yale) Herb Brooks Arena (Men's tournament) Championships and awards Men's champions Women's champions Player of the Year Rookie of the Year Coach of the Year Best Defensive Defenseman Best Defensive Forward Ken Dryden Award Student-Athlete of the Year Most Outstanding Player in Tournament Seasons 1961–62 1962–63 1963–64 1964–65 1965–66 1966–67 1967–68 1968–69 1969–70 1970–71 1971–72 1972–73 1973–74 1974–75 1975–76 1976–77 1977–78 1978–79 1979–80 1980–81 1981–82 1982–83 1983–84 1984–85 1985–86 1986–87 1987–88 1988–89 1989–90 1990–91 1991–92 1992–93 1993–94 1994–95 1995–96 1996–97 1997–98 1998–99 1999–00 2000–01 2001–02 2002–03 2003–04 2004–05 2005–06 2006–07 2007–08 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 2012–13 2013–14 2014–15 2015–16 2016–17 2017–18 2018–19 v t e Eastern Association of Rowing Colleges BU Terriers Brown Bears Columbia Lions Cornell Big Red Dartmouth Big Green Georgetown Hoyas Harvard Crimson Holy Cross Crusaders MIT Engineers Navy Midshipmen Northeastern Huskies Penn Quakers Princeton Tigers Rutgers Scarlet Knights Syracuse Orange Wisconsin Badgers Yale Bulldogs v t e National Intercollegiate Rugby Association Division 1 Army Black Knights Brown Bears Dartmouth Big Green Harvard Crimson Long Island Sharks Mount St. Mary's Mountaineers Quinnipiac Bobcats Sacred Heart Pioneers Division 2 American International Yellow Jackets Molloy Lions Notre Dame College Falcons Queens Royals West Chester Golden Rams Division 3 Bowdoin Polar Bears Castleton Spartans Colby–Sawyer Chargers New England College Pilgrims Norwich Cadets University of New England Nor'easters v t e Association of American Universities Public Arizona California Berkeley Davis Irvine Los Angeles San Diego Santa Barbara Santa Cruz Colorado Florida Georgia Tech Illinois Indiana Iowa Iowa State Kansas Maryland Michigan Michigan State Minnesota Missouri New York Buffalo Stony Brook North Carolina Ohio State Oregon Penn State Pittsburgh Purdue Rutgers Texas Texas A&M Utah Virginia Washington Wisconsin Private Boston U Brandeis Brown Caltech Carnegie Mellon Case Western Reserve Chicago Columbia Cornell Dartmouth Duke Emory Harvard Johns Hopkins MIT Northwestern NYU Penn Princeton Rice Rochester USC Stanford Tulane Vanderbilt Wash U Yale Canadian (public) McGill Toronto v t e Universities Research Association Public Alabama Arizona Arizona State California Berkeley Davis Irvine Los Angeles Riverside San Diego Santa Barbara Colorado Colorado State Florida Florida State Houston Illinois Chicago Urbana–Champaign Indiana Iowa Iowa State Kansas State Kentucky LSU Maryland Michigan Michigan State Minnesota Mississippi Nebraska New Mexico New Mexico State North Carolina North Texas Northern Illinois Ohio State Oklahoma Oregon Penn State Pittsburgh Purdue Rutgers South Carolina SUNY Buffalo Stony Brook Tennessee Texas Arlington Austin Dallas Texas A&M Texas Tech Virginia Virginia Tech Washington Wayne State William & Mary Wisconsin Private Boston U Brown Caltech Carnegie Mellon Case Western Reserve Chicago Columbia Cornell Duke Harvard Illinois Tech Johns Hopkins MIT Northeastern Northwestern Notre Dame UPenn Princeton Rice Rochester Rockefeller SMU Stanford Syracuse Tufts Tulane Vanderbilt WUSTL Yale International McGill Toronto Pisa Waseda Manchester Liverpool UCL v t e 568 Group Amherst College Boston College Claremont McKenna College College of the Holy Cross Columbia University Cornell University Dartmouth College Davidson College Duke University Emory University Georgetown University Grinnell College Haverford College Massachusetts Institute of Technology Middlebury College Northwestern University Pomona College St. John's College Swarthmore College University of Notre Dame University of Pennsylvania Vanderbilt University Wellesley College Williams College Authority control BNF: cb11871472b (data) GND: 1010811-7 ISNI: 0000 0004 1936 9094 LCCN: n79056113 MusicBrainz: eb32159e-436b-4b59-a918-2df4a4334155 NKC: ko2002148998 SUDOC: 026472449 VIAF: 144232685 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n79056113 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Brown_University&oldid=947560187" Categories: Brown University Colonial architecture in Rhode Island Colonial colleges Educational institutions established in the 1760s Georgian architecture in Rhode Island Non-profit organizations based in Rhode Island Rhode Island in the American Revolution Universities and colleges in Providence, Rhode Island 1764 establishments in Rhode Island 1760s in the Thirteen Colonies Educational institutions established in the 1700s V-12 Navy College Training Program Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links CS1 maint: extra punctuation CS1 maint: archived copy as title Pages containing links to subscription-only content Articles with short description Use mdy dates from November 2014 Articles containing Latin-language text Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using infobox university with the image name parameter Articles containing potentially dated statements from November 2019 All articles containing potentially dated statements All articles lacking reliable references Articles lacking reliable references from December 2016 Articles to be expanded from December 2019 All articles to be expanded Articles using small message boxes All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from October 2014 All articles with vague or ambiguous time Vague or ambiguous time from October 2014 Vague or ambiguous time from May 2017 Commons category link is on Wikidata Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from The American Cyclopaedia Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from The American Cyclopaedia with a Wikisource reference Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with MusicBrainz place identifiers Wikipedia articles with NKC identifiers Wikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikinews Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans ??????? Asturianu Az?rbaycanca ?????? ????? ????????? ????????? Bosanski Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti Español Euskara ????? Français Gaelg Gàidhlig ??? ??????? Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano ????? ??????? ???????? Latina Latviešu Magyar ?????????? ?????? ???? Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål ?????? ?????? Polski Português ?????????? ??????? Scots Shqip Simple English ?????? / srpski Suomi Svenska Tagalog ????? ???????/tatarça ??? Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t Winaray ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 27 March 2020, at 01:39 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
