Cantonese Wikipedia - Wikipedia Cantonese Wikipedia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Cantonese Wikipedia ?????? Type of site Internet encyclopedia project Available in Cantonese Headquarters Miami, Florida Owner Wikimedia Foundation URL zh-yue.wikipedia.org Commercial No Registration Optional The Cantonese Wikipedia (Chinese: ??????; Jyutping: jyut6 man4 wai4 gei1 baak3 fo1) is the Cantonese-language edition of Wikipedia, run by the Wikimedia Foundation. It was started on 25 March 2006. Contents 1 History 2 Naming 2.1 ISO code 2.2 Native name 3 Community 3.1 Origin of edits 3.2 Origin of readers 4 Script 5 Other Chinese-language Wikipedias 6 See also 7 References 8 External links History[edit] See also: Written Cantonese Cantonese, a major of the Chinese language originating in Guangzhou, is the lingua franca in the southern provinces of Guangdong and Guangxi, and is one of the official languages of Hong Kong and Macau. Cantonese has the most well-developed written form of all Chinese varieties apart from the standard-Mandarin variety and Classical Chinese. With the advent of the computer and standardization of character sets specifically for Cantonese, many printed materials in predominantly Cantonese speaking areas of the world cater to their population using these written Cantonese characters. Naming[edit] The Cantonese name of Wikipedia was decided in April 2006, following a vote. In a similar manner to the existing Chinese Wikipedia, the name of Cantonese Wikipedia (simplified Chinese: ????; traditional Chinese: ????; Jyutping: wai4 gei1 baak3 fo1) means "Wiki Encyclopedia". The Chinese transcription of "Wiki" is composed of two characters: ?/?, whose ancient sense refers to "ropes or webs connecting objects", and alludes to the Internet; and ?, meaning "foundations of a building", or "fundamental aspects of things in general". The name can be interpreted as "the encyclopedia that connects the fundamental knowledge of humanity". The discussion in 2006 also decided the Cantonese name of the word "Cantonese" in the wiki. The result was "??". In a vote from August to September 2013 it was decided that the name be changed to "??", which literally means "Cantonese inscription". ISO code[edit] At the time of establishment, there was no ISO code for Cantonese. Thus, zh-yue was used as the domain. However, some did not like the idea, as Yue is the Mandarin name of Cantonese. The native name is Yuet. Cantonese preserves entering tone while Mandarin does not. Some suggested using Cantonese instead, but zh-yue was chosen as the final domain name. The ISO code for Cantonese is yue. Using the ISO code instead of current domain has been submitted as a proposal to Wikimedia, but as of yet, no action has been taken to implement this change. Native name[edit] There are various native names of Cantonese, namely Gwóng j?u wá (???), Gwóng fú wá (???), Gwóng d?ng wá (???) and Yuht yúh (??). Cantonese Wikipedians thus use the four names interchangeably, namely ???????, ???????, ??????? and ??????. There is no consensus on the native name. Community[edit] This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Cantonese Wikipedia" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (October 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Cantonese flourishes in the southern provinces of Guangdong and Guangxi, as well as in Hong Kong and Macau where it is listed as one of their official languages. Some Cantonese speakers are native to Vietnam, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Australia, Canada, the United States and United Kingdom. Hong Kong owns the largest written Cantonese assets and does not have tight internet censorship. Fittingly, most editors are Hong Kongers. Starting from a small community, Cantonese Wikipedians have formed a consensus to follow, by default, the policies, guidelines, and customs of the English Wikipedia, wherever they are applicable. This consensus has provided stability and allows Wikipedians to concentrate on content. As of 25 March 2020, the Cantonese Wikipedia has over 1,346,018 edits, over 75,484 articles, and more than 189,911 registered users, 11 of whom are administrators. Origin of edits[edit] Origin of edits (January–March 2014) Source Country % of edits  China ? 53.6%  Hong Kong ? 35.5%  Taiwan ? 4.8% Other ? 6.1% Origin of readers[edit] Location of readers (January–March 2018) Source Country % of views  Hong Kong ? 52.8%  Taiwan ? 16.2%  United States ? 10.9%  France ? 3.3%  Canada ? 3.3%  Australia ? 2.3%  Malaysia ? 1.7%  Macau ? 1.7%  United Kingdom ? 1.7%  Germany ? 1.7%  Sweden ? 1.0%  Romania ? 1.0%  Netherlands ? 1.0%  China ? 1.0% Other ? 0.4% Script[edit] There are two different scripts of written Cantonese, Traditional Chinese and Simplified Chinese. Some Cantonese-specific characters can only be written in Traditional Chinese. Cantonese Wikipedia uses Traditional following Hong Kong and Macau in their traditional usage, because most of the participants came from Hong Kong when Cantonese Wikipedia was founded. But this led to a dissatisfaction among Simplified Chinese users (mainly Cantonese speakers in Guangdong). To solve this problem, a JavaScript converter was created and provided for viewing the content in Simplified Chinese characters. Different From Chinese Wikipedia (where replacing a form of writing with another in source text is prohibited), if an editor write a page in Simplified characters, he or she will not receive any warning from administrators, but the text will be converted to Traditional ones manually. Other Chinese-language Wikipedias[edit] Cantonese is a member of the group of Chinese varieties. Different Wikipedias have been established for different Chinese varieties (see below). The Cantonese Wikipedia is the third largest in this family. Chinese Wikipedia (based on Standard Chinese) Classical Chinese Wikipedia Min Nan Wikipedia Mindong Wikipedia Gan Wikipedia Wu Wikipedia Hakka Wikipedia See also[edit] Chinese encyclopedias References[edit] Wikimedia Mail: [1] [2] (December 2004), [3] (January 2005), [4] (February 2005), [5] [6] (September 2005) External links[edit] Cantonese edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (in Yue Chinese) Cantonese Wikipedia v t e List of Wikipedias by article count 6,000,000+ English 5,000,000+ Cebuano 3,000,000+ Swedish 2,000,000+ German French Dutch 1,000,000+ Russian Italian Spanish Polish Waray Vietnamese Japanese Chinese Arabic Portuguese Ukrainian 500,000+ Persian Catalan Serbian Norwegian (bokmål/riksmål) Indonesian 200,000+ Korean Finnish Hungarian Serbo-Croatian Czech Romanian Basque Turkish Malay Esperanto Armenian Bulgarian Hebrew Danish Chechen Southern Min Slovak Kazakh Minangkabau Croatian Estonian 100,000+ Lithuanian Belarusian Greek Southern Azerbaijani Slovene Galician Azerbaijani Simple English Norwegian (nynorsk) Urdu Hindi Thai Georgian Uzbek Latin Tamil Volapük Egyptian Arabic Welsh Macedonian Tajik Latvian Asturian 50,000+ Malagasy Occitan Tagalog Tatar Afrikaans Kyrgyz Bosnian Albanian Newar Cantonese Telugu Bengali Belarusian (Taraškievica) Breton Piedmontese Malayalam Javanese Luxembourgish Haitian Scots Marathi Swahili Irish Low Saxon Bashkir Silesian 20,000+ Western Punjabi Icelandic Chuvash West Frisian Sundanese Burmese Lombard Aragonese Yoruba Nepali Punjabi Gujarati Ido Bavarian Sicilian Bishnupriya Manipuri Alemannic Kurdish (Kurmanji) Kannada Kurdish (Sorani) Venetian Interlingua Quechua 10,000+ Acehnese Amharic Buginese Classical Chinese Eastern Min Faroese Mongolian Neapolitan Samogitian Scottish Gaelic Sinhalese Walloon Odia Yiddish Banyumasan Upper Sorbian Mazandarani Maithili Megrelian Limburgish Wu Sakha Sanskrit Ilokano Ossetian Hill Mari Emilian-Romagnol Sindhi Meadow Mari Pashto Zazaki Hakka Navajo Central Bicolano North Frisian 5,000+ Fiji Hindi Tarantino Kapampangan Northern Sotho Northern Sami Maori Shan Nahuatl Dutch Low Saxon Rusyn Khmer Bihari West Flemish Gan Crimean Tatar Tibetan Sardinian Vepsian Somali Gilaki Corsican Turkmen Võro Northern Luri Komi Erzya Kashubian 2,000+ Abkhazian Assamese Aymara Balinese Interlingue Manx Norman Saterland Frisian Udmurt Uyghur Zeelandic Lezgian Shona Cornish Ladino Picard Mirandese Konkani Romansh Guarani Komi-Permyak Ligurian Maltese Gorontalo Friulian Lower Sorbian Franco-Provençal Lingala Anglo-Saxon Divehi Chavacano Extremaduran Doteli Lao Kabyle Ripuarian Gagauz Lingua Franca Nova Hawaiian Livvi-Karelian Pangasinan Pali Avar Buryat Palatinate German Kalmyk Karachay-Balkar Banjar Hausa Santali 1,000+ Tulu Papiamentu Karakalpak Zhuang Pennsylvania German Kinyarwanda Tongan Novial Greenlandic Aramaic Jamaican Kabardian Tuvan Tok Pisin Tetum Kabiye Kikuyu Nauruan Igbo Bislama Aromanian Lak Lojban Tahitian Moksha Kongo Luganda Wolof Sranan Zulu 500+ Cherokee Latgalian Samoan Ingush Oromo Xhosa Norfolk Romani Old Church Slavonic Bambara Tswana Kirundi Cheyenne Twi Atikamekw Tumbuka Tsonga Sesotho Gothic Akan 200+ Chamorro Pontic Swati Fijian Adyghe Inuktitut Chichewa Ewe Kashmiri Inupiak Venda Sango Fula Dzongkha 100+ Tigrinya Cree 10+ Dinka 0+ Ndonga Choctaw Kuanyama Marshallese Hiri Motu Sichuan Yi Afar Muscogee Herero Kanuri Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cantonese_Wikipedia&oldid=933508778" Categories: Internet properties established in 2004 Wikipedias by language Chinese online encyclopedias Hidden categories: Articles containing Yue Chinese-language text Articles containing traditional Chinese-language text Articles containing simplified Chinese-language text Articles containing Chinese-language text Articles needing additional references from October 2012 All articles needing additional references Articles with Yue Chinese-language sources (yue) Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans ??????? ??????? ????? Bân-lâm-gú ?eština Eesti Español Euskara ????? Français ?? ??? ?????? Bahasa Indonesia ??????? ???? ?????? ?????????? Mìng-d??ng-ng?? Norsk bokmål O?zbekcha/??????? Polski Português ??????? Simple English ?????? / srpski Tagalog ???????/tatarça ??? ?????? Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? ?? ?? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 1 January 2020, at 12:11 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
