Cebuano language - Wikipedia Cebuano language From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Austronesian language of the Philippines This article is about the Cebuano language. It is not to be confused with Visayan languages or Brunei Bisaya language. Cebuano Cebuan,[1] Sebwano,[2] Visayan Sugbuanon, Bisayâ, Bisayâng Sugbuanon, Sinugbuanong Binisayâ, Sinibwano Pronunciation /s??bw??no?/[3][4][5] Native to Philippines Region Central Visayas, eastern Negros Occidental, western parts of Eastern Visayas, and most parts of Mindanao Ethnicity Cebuano people Native speakers 16 million (2005)[6] Language family Austronesian Malayo-Polynesian Philippine Greater Central Philippine Central Philippine Visayan Cebuano Dialects Standard Cebuano (Cebu province dialect); Urban Cebuano (Metro Cebu dialect); Negrense Cebuano (Negros Oriental dialect); Boholano Cebuano; Leyteño Cebuano (Kana); Mindanao Cebuano (includes Davaoeño Cebuano) Writing system Latin (Cebuano alphabet) Cebuano Braille Baybayin or originally known as Badlit (historical) Official status Recognised minority language in  Philippines Regulated by Visayan Academy of Arts and Letters Komisyon sa Wikang Filipino Language codes ISO 639-2 ceb ISO 639-3 ceb Glottolog cebu1242[7] Cebuano-speaking area in the Philippines This article contains IPA phonetic symbols. Without proper rendering support, you may see question marks, boxes, or other symbols instead of Unicode characters. For an introductory guide on IPA symbols, see Help:IPA. The Cebuano language (/s??bw??no?/), also often referred colloquially to by most of its speakers simply as Bisaya/Binisaya[8] (English translation: "Visayan", not to be confused with other Visayan languages), is an Austronesian language spoken in the southern Philippines, namely in Central Visayas, western parts of Eastern Visayas and on majority of Mindanao. It is spoken primarily by various Visayan ethnolinguistic groups who are native to those areas, mainly the Cebuanos.[9] While Filipino (Tagalog) has the largest number of speakers of Philippine languages, Cebuano had the largest native language-speaking population in the Philippines until about the 1980s.[10] It is by far the most widely spoken of the Visayan languages, which are in turn part of the wider Philippine languages. It is the lingua franca of the Central Visayas, western parts of Eastern Visayas, some western parts of Palawan and most parts of Mindanao. The name Cebuano is derived from the island of Cebu, which is the Urheimat or origin of the language.[11][12] Cebuano is also the prime language in Western Leyte, noticeably in Ormoc and other municipalities surrounding the city, though most of the residents in the area name the Cebuano language by their own demonyms such as "Ormocanon" in Ormoc and "Albuerahanon" in Albuera.[13] Cebuano is given the ISO 639-2 three-letter code ceb, but has no ISO 639-1 two-letter code. The Komisyon ng Wikang Filipino, the official regulating body of Philippine languages, spells the name of the language as Sebwano. Cebuano and its dialects (including Boholano) are also sometimes referred to as Cebuan (/s??bu??n/ seh-BOO-?n), especially in linguistics, where it is one of the five primary branches of the Visayan languages.[14] Contents 1 Distribution 2 Nomenclature 3 History 4 Phonology 4.1 Vowels 4.2 Consonants 4.3 Stress 5 Grammar 6 Vocabulary 7 Phrases 8 Dialects 8.1 Boholano Cebuano 8.2 Leyteño Cebuano 8.2.1 Southern Kana 8.2.2 Northern Kana 8.3 Mindanao Cebuano 8.3.1 Davaoeño Cebuano 8.4 Negrense Cebuano 8.5 Other dialects 8.5.1 Luzon Cebuano 8.5.2 Saksak Sinagol 9 Examples 9.1 Numbers 10 See also 11 Notes 12 References 13 External links Distribution[edit] Cebuano is spoken in the provinces of Cebu, Bohol, Siquijor, Negros Oriental, northeastern Negros Occidental, (as well as the municipality of Hinoba-an and the cities of Kabankalan and Sipalay to a great extent, alongside Ilonggo), southern Masbate, many portions of Leyte, Biliran, parts of Samar, and most parts of Mindanao, the second largest island of the Philippines.[11] Furthermore, "a large portion of the urban population of Zamboanga, Davao , Surigao and Cotabato is Cebuano speaking".[11] Some dialects of Cebuano have different names for the language. Cebuano speakers from Cebu are mainly called "Cebuano" while those from Bohol are "Boholano". Cebuano speakers in Leyte identify their dialect as Kanâ meaning that (Leyte Cebuano or Leyteño). Speakers in Mindanao and Luzon refer to the language simply as Binisaya or Bisaya.[13] Nomenclature[edit] In common or everyday parlance, especially by those speakers from outside of the island of Cebu, Cebuano is more often referred to as Bisaya. Bisaya, however, may become a source of confusion as many other Visayan languages may also be referred to as Bisaya even though they are not mutually intelligible with speakers of what is referred to by linguists as Cebuano. Cebuano in this sense applies to all speakers of vernaculars mutually intelligible with the vernaculars of Cebu island, regardless of origin or location, as well as to the language they speak. The term Cebuano (itself part of the Spanish colonial heritage, from "Cebu"+"ano", a Latinate calque) has garnered some objections. For example, generations of Cebuano speakers in northern Mindanao (Dipolog, Dapitan, Misamis Occidental and Misamis Oriental together with coastal areas of Butuan) say that their ancestry traces back to Cebuano speakers native to their place and not from immigrants or settlers from the Visayas. Furthermore, they ethnically refer to themselves as Bisaya and not Cebuano, and their language as Binisaya.[15] History[edit] Cebuano originates from the island of Cebu.[12] The language "has spread from its base in Cebu" to nearby islands[12] and also Bohol, eastern Negros, western and southern parts of Leyte and most parts of Mindanao, especially the northern, southern, and eastern parts of the large island.[11] Cebuano was first documented in a list of vocabulary compiled by Antonio Pigafetta, an Italian explorer who was part of and documented Ferdinand Magellan's 1521 expedition.[16] Spanish missionaries started to write in the language during the early 18th century. As a result of the eventual 300-year Spanish colonial period, Cebuano contains many words of Spanish origin. While there is evidence of a pre-Spanish writing system for the language, its use appears to have been sporadic. Spaniards recorded the Visayan script[17] which was called Kudlit-kabadlit by the natives.[18] The colonists erroneously called the ancient Filipino script "Tagalog letters", regardless of the language for which it was used. This script died out by the 17th century as it was gradually supplanted by the Latin script. The language was heavily influenced by the Spanish language during the period of colonialism from 1565 to 1898. With the arrival of Spanish colonists, for example, a Latin-based writing system was introduced alongside a number of Spanish loanwords.[19] Due to the influence of the Spanish language, the number of vowel sounds also increased from three to five. Phonology[edit] Vowels[edit] Below is the vowel system of Cebuano with their corresponding letter representation in angular brackets:[15][20][21] Table of vowel phonemes of Standard Cebuano Front Central Back Close i ?i? u ?u? Mid ? ?e? o ?o? Open a ?a? /a/ an open front unrounded vowel similar to English "father" /?/ an open-mid front unrounded vowel similar to English "bed" /i/ a close front unrounded vowel similar to English "machine" /o/ a close-mid back rounded vowel similar to English "forty" /u/ a close back rounded vowel similar to English "flute" Sometimes, ?a? may also be pronounced as the open-mid back unrounded vowel /?/ (as in English "gut"); ?e? or ?i? as the near-close near-front unrounded vowel /?/ (as in English "bit"); and ?o? or ?u? as the open-mid back rounded vowel /?/ (as in English "thought") or the near-close near-back rounded vowel /?/ (as in English "hook").[15] During the precolonial and Spanish period, Cebuano had only three vowel phonemes: /a/, /i/ and /u/. This was later expanded to five vowels with the introduction of Spanish. As a consequence, the vowels ?o? or ?u?, as well as ?e? or ?i?, are still mostly allophones. They can be freely switched with each other without losing their meaning (free variation); though it may sound strange to a native listener, depending on their dialect. The vowel ?a? has no variations, though it can be pronounced subtly differently, as either /a/ or /?/ (and very rarely as /?/ immediately after the consonant /w/). Loanwords, however, are usually more conservative in their orthography and pronunciation (e.g. dyip, "jeepney" from English "jeep", will never be written or spoken as dyep).[15][22] Consonants[edit] For Cebuano consonants, all the stops are unaspirated. The velar nasal /?/ occurs in all positions, including at the beginning of a word (e.g. ngano, "why"). The glottal stop /?/ is most commonly encountered in between two vowels, but can also appear in all positions.[15] Like in Tagalog, glottal stops are usually not indicated in writing. When indicated, it is commonly written as a hyphen or an apostrophe if the glottal stop occurs in the middle of the word (e.g. to-o or to'o, "right"). More formally, when it occurs at the end of the word, it is indicated by a circumflex accent if both a stress and a glottal stop occurs at the final vowel (e.g. basâ, "wet"); or a grave accent if the glottal stop occurs at the final vowel, but the stress occurs at the penultimate syllable (e.g. batà, "child").[23][24][25] Below is a chart of Cebuano consonants with their corresponding letter representation in parentheses:[15][20][21][26] Bilabial Dental Palatal Velar Glottal Nasal m ?m? n? ?n? ? ?ng? Stop p ?p? b ?b? t? ?t? d? ?d? k ?k? ? ?g? ? (see text) Fricative s? ?s? h ?h? Affricate     Approximant (Lateral) j ?y? w ?w? l? ?l? Rhotic ??~r? ?r? In certain dialects, /l/ ?l? may be interchanged with /w/ ?w? in between vowels and vice versa depending on the following conditions:[15] If ?l? is in between ?a? and ?u?/?o?, the vowel succeeding ?l? is usually (but not always) dropped (e.g. lalum, "deep", becomes lawum or lawm). If ?l? is in between ?u?/?o? and ?a?, it is the vowel that is preceding ?l? that is instead dropped (e.g. bulan, "moon", becomes buwan or bwan) If ?l? is in between two like vowels, the ?l? may be dropped completely and the vowel lengthened. For example, dala ("bring"), becomes da (/d?a?/); and tulod ("push") becomes tud (/t?u?d?/).[15] Except if the l is in between closed syllables or is in the beginning of the penultimate syllable; in which case, the ?l? is dropped along with one of the vowels, and no lengthening occurs. For example, kalatkat, "climb", becomes katkat (/?katkat/ not /?ka?tkat/). A final ?l? can also be replaced with ?w? in certain areas in Bohol (e.g. tambal, "medicine", becomes tambaw). In very rare cases in Cebu, ?l? may also be replaced with ?y? in between the vowels ?a? and ?e?/?i? (e.g. tingali, "maybe", becomes tingayi).[15] In some parts of Bohol and Southern Leyte, /j/ ?y? is also often replaced with d?? ?j/dy? when it is in the beginning of a syllable (e.g. kalayo, "fire", becomes kalajo). It can also happen even if the ?y? is at the final position of the syllable and the word, but only if it is moved to the initial position by the addition of the affix -a. For example, baboy ("pig") can not become baboj, but baboya can become baboja.[15] All of the above substitutions are considered allophonic and do not change the meaning of the word.[15] In rarer instances, the consonant ?d? might also be replaced with ?r? when it is in between two vowels (e.g. Boholano ido for standard Cebuano iro, "dog"), but ?d? and ?r? are not considered allophones,[15] though they may have been in the past.[27] Stress[edit] Stress accent is phonemic, so that dapít (adverb) means "near to a place," while d?pit (noun) means "place." d?-ol (verb) means "come near," while du-ól (adverb) means "near" or "close by." Grammar[edit] This section should include a summary of Cebuano grammar. See Wikipedia:Summary style for information on how to incorporate it into this article's main text. (December 2019) Main articles: Cebuano grammar and Austronesian alignment Vocabulary[edit] See also: Indosphere, Indianisation, and List of India-related topics in the Philippines Cebuano is a member of the Philippine languages. Early trade contact resulted in a large number of older loan words from other languages being embedded in Cebuano, like Sanskrit (e.g. sangka, "fight" and bahandi, "wealth", from Sanskrit sanka and bh?nda respectively), and Arabic (e.g. salámat, "thanks"; hukom or hukm, "judge").[28] It has also been influenced by thousands of words from Spanish, such as kurus [cruz] (cross), swerte [suerte] ("luck"), gwapa [guapa], ("beautiful"), merkado [mercado] ("market") and brilyante [brillante] ("brilliant"). It has several hundred loan words from English as well, which are altered to conform to the limited phonemic inventory of Cebuano: brislit (bracelet), hayskul (high school), syáping (shopping), bakwit (evacuate), and dráyber (driver). However, today, it is more common for Cebuanos to spell out those words in their original English form rather than with spelling that might conform to Cebuano standards. Phrases[edit] A few common phrases in Cebu-ano include:[29] How are you? (used as a greeting) - Kumusta? Good morning - Maayong buntag Good afternoon - Maayong hapon Good evening - Maayong gabii Good bye - Ayo-ayo ("Take care", formal), Adios (rare), Babay (informal, corruption of "Goodbye"), Amping ("Take care"), Hangtud sa sunod nga higayon ("Until next time") Many thanks!; or Thank you very much! - Daghang Salamat Thank you - Salamat You're welcome - Wala'y sapayan Do not (imperative) - Ayaw Don't know - Ambot Yes - Oo Maybe - Tingali, Basin No [30][31] Dili - for future verb negation ("will not", "does/do not", "not going to"); and negation of identity, membership, property, relation, or position ("[he/she/it/this/that] is not") Wala - for past and progressive verb negation ("have not", "did not"); and to indicate the absence of ("none", "nothing", "not have", "there is not") Who - Kinsa What - Unsa Where - Asa When - Kanus-a How - Giunsa Dialects[edit] The de facto Standard Cebuano dialect (sometimes referred to as General Cebuano) is derived from the vernacular spoken in southeastern Cebu (also known as the Sialo dialect or the Carcar-Dalaguete dialect). It first gained prominence due to its adoption by the Catholic Church as the standard for written Cebuano. It retains the intervocalic /l/.[15] In contrast, the Urban Cebuano dialect spoken by people in Metro Cebu and surrounding areas is characterized by /l/ elision and heavily contracted words and phrases.[15] For example, waláy problema ("no problem") in Standard Cebuano can become way 'blema in Urban Cebuano. Colloquialisms can also be used to determine the regional origin of the speaker. Cebuano-speaking people from Cagayan de Oro and Dumaguete, for example, say chada or tsada/patsada (roughly translated to the English colloquialism "awesome")[32] and people from Davao City say atchup which also translated to the same English context;[33] meanwhile Cebuanos from Cebu on the other hand say nindot or, sometimes, aníndot. However, this word is also commonly used in the same context in other Cebuano-speaking regions, in effect making this word not only limited in use to Cebu. There is no standardized orthography for Cebuano, but spelling in print usually follow the pronunciation of Standard Cebuano, regardless of how it is actually spoken by the speaker. For example, baláy ("house") is pronounced /ba?l?a?/ in Standard Cebuano and is thus spelled "baláy", even in Urban Cebuano where it is actually pronounced /?ba?/.[15] Cebuano is spoken natively over a large area of the Philippines and thus has numerous regional dialects. It can vary significantly in terms of lexicon and phonology depending on where it is spoken.[15] Increasing usage of spoken English (being the primary language of commerce and education in the Philippines) has also led to the introduction of new pronunciations and spellings of old Cebuano words. Code-switching forms of English and Bisaya (Bislish) are also common among the educated younger generations.[34][35] There are four main dialectal groups within Cebuano aside from the Standard Cebuano and Urban Cebuano. They are as follows:[36][37][38][39] Boholano Cebuano[edit] The Boholano dialect of Bohol shares many similarities with the southern form of the standard Cebuano dialect. It is also spoken in some parts of Siquijor. Boholano, especially as spoken in central Bohol, can be distinguished from other Cebuano variants by a few phonetic changes: The semivowel y is pronounced [d?]: iya is pronounced [i?d?a]; Ako is pronounced as [a?ho]; Intervocalic l is occasionally pronounced as [w] when following u or o: kulang is pronounced as [?kuwa?] (the same as Metro Cebu dialect). Leyteño Cebuano[edit] Southern Kana[edit] Southern Kana is a dialect of southern Leyte and in Southern Leyte; it is closest to the Mindanao Cebuano dialect at the southern area and northern Cebu dialect at the northern boundaries. Both North and South Kana are subgroups of Leyteño dialect. Both of these dialects are spoken in western and central Leyte and in the southern province, but the Boholano is more concentrated in Maasin City. Speakers of these two dialects can be distinguished by their distinctive modification of /j/ into /d?/, as in the words ayaw (don't) is turned into ajaw; dayon (come in) - dajun; bayad(pay) -bajad. Like the Mindanao dialects, they are notable for their usage of a vocabulary containing archaic longer words like kalatkat ("climb") instead of katkat.[citation needed] Northern Kana[edit] North Kana (found in the northern part of Leyte), is closest to the variety of the language spoken in northern part of Leyte, and shows significant influence from Waray-Waray, quite notably in its pace which speakers from Cebu find very fast, and its more mellow tone (compared to the urban Cebu City dialect, which Kana speakers find "rough"). A distinguishing feature of this dialect is the reduction of /A/ prominent, but an often unnoticed feature of this dialect is the labialisation of /n/ and /?/ into /m/, when these phonemes come before /p/ /b/ and /m/, velarisation of /m/ and /n/ into /?/ before /k/ /?/ and /?/, and the dentalisation of /?/ and /m/ into /n/ before /t/, /d/ and /n/ and sometimes, before vowels and other consonants as well. The Northern Kana dialect generally contains less /l/ sounds than standard Cebuano.[citation needed] In between vowels /l/ is removed, and depending on what vowel chain follows, it may create a long vowel or have /y/ or /w/ take its place. (Elision) Some words also hold different meanings, like how the word "ram?w"/"lam?w" refers to the meat of young coconut suspended in either coconut juice or sugared milk in N. Kana; while in Standard Cebuano, "lam?w" means "rice leftovers", which is "bah?w" in S. Kana and Mindanao Cebuano.[citation needed] Sugbu Kana Waray English Kan-on Luto Lutô Cooked rice Kini Kiri/kini Ini This Kana Kara'/kana Iton That Dinhi/Diri ari/dinhi/diri Didi/Ngadi/Aadi/Dinhi Here Diha/Dinha Dira/diha/dinha Dida/Ngada/Aada There Bas/Balas Bas/Balas Baras Soil/Sand Alsa Arsa Alsa To lift Bulsa Bursa Bulsa Pocket Mindanao Cebuano[edit] This is the variety of Cebuano spoken throughout most of Mindanao and it is the standard dialect of Cebuano in Northern Mindanao. Local historical sources found in Cagayan de Oro indicates the early presence of Cebuano Visayans in the Misamis-Agusan coastal areas and their contacts with the Lumads and peoples of the Rajahnate of Butuan. Lumads refer to these Visayan groups as "Dumagat" ("people of the sea") as they came in the area seaborne. It became the lingua franca of precolonial Visayan settlers and native Lumads of the area, and particularly of the ancient Rajahnate of Butuan where Butuanon, a Southern Visayan language, was also spoken. Cebuano influence in Lumad languages around the highlands of Misamis Oriental and Bukidnon was furthered with the influx of Cebuano Visayan laborers and conscripts of the Spaniards from Cebuano areas of Visayas (particularly from Bohol) during the colonial period around the present-day region of Northern Mindanao. It has spread west towards the Zamboanga Peninsula, east towards the Caraga Region, and south towards Bukidnon, Cotabato and the Davao Region in the final years of Spanish colonial rule. Similar to the Sialo dialect of southeastern Cebu, it is distinctive in retaining /l/ sounds, long since considered archaic in Urban Cebuano. For example: bulan instead of buwan ("moon" or "month"), dalunggan instead of dunggan (ear), and halang instead of hang ("spicy"). Due to the influx of migrants (mostly from Western Visayas and Leyte) during the promotion of settlement in the highlands of Central Mindanao in the 1930s, vocabulary from other Visayan languages (predominantly Hiligaynon and Waray-Waray) have also been incorporated into Mindanao Cebuano. For example, the Hiligaynon sábat ("reply") is commonly used alongside Cebuano tubag, bulig alongside tábang ("help"), and Waray lutô alongside kan-on ("cooked rice"). Though, these influences are only limited to the speakers along the port area and Hiligaynon-speaking communities. Davaoeño Cebuano[edit] Not to be confused with Chavacano language: Castellano Abakay (Chabacano de Davao). A branch of Mindanao Cebuano in Davao is also known as Davaoeño (not to be confused with the Davao variant of Chavacano which is called "Castellano Abakay"). Like the Cebuano-speakers of Luzon (Luzon Cebuano dialect), it contains some Tagalog vocabulary to a greater extent. Its grammar is somewhat in between the original Cebuano language and the Luzon Cebuano dialect. However, speakers from Davao City nowadays exhibits stronger Tagalog influence in their speech by substituting most Cebuano words with Tagalog ones. One characteristic is the practice of saying atà, derived from Tagalog yatà to denote uncertainty of a speaker's any aforementioned statements. For instance, "To-a man atà sa baláy si Manuel" instead of "To-a man tingáli sa baláy si Manuel". However, the word atà exists in Cebuano though it means " squid ink" (atà sa nukos). Other examples include: Nibabâ ko sa dyip sa kanto, tapos miulî ko sa among baláy ("I got off the jeepney at the street corner, and then I went home") instead of Nináug ko sa dyip sa kanto, dayon miulî ko sa among baláy. The words babâ and naug mean "to disembark" or "to go down", while tapos and dayon mean "then"; the former is Tagalog, and the latter Cebuano. It also sometimes add some Bagobo and Mansakan vocabulary, like: Madayaw nga adlaw, amigo, kamusta ka? ("Good day, friend, how are you?", literally "Good morning/afternoon") rather than "Maayo nga adlaw, amigo, kamusta ka?" The words madayaw and maayo mean "good"; the former is Bagobo, and the latter Cebuano. Negrense Cebuano[edit] The Cebuano dialect in Negros is somewhat similar to the Standard Cebuano (spoken by the majority of the provincial areas of Cebu), with distinct Hiligaynon influences. It is distinctive in retaining /l/ sounds and longer word forms as well. It is the primary dialectal language of the entire province of Negros Oriental and northeastern parts of Negros Occidental (while the majority of the latter province and its bordered areas speaks Hiligaynon/Ilonggo), as well as some parts of Siquijor. Examples of Negrense Cebuano's distinction from other Cebuano dialects is the usage of the word maot instead of batî ("ugly"), alálay, kalálag instead of kalag-kalag (Halloween), kabaló/kahíbaló and kaágo/kaántigo instead of kabawó/kahíbawó ("know"). Other dialects[edit] Luzon Cebuano[edit] There is no specific Luzon dialect, as speakers of Cebuano in Luzon come from many different regions in Central Visayas and Mindanao. Cebuano-speaking people from Luzon in Visayas can be easily recognized primarily by their vocabulary which incorporates Tagalog words. Their accents and some aspects of grammar can also sometimes exhibit Tagalog influence. The dialect is sometimes colloquially known as "Bisalog" (a portmanteau of Tagalog and Binisaya). Saksak Sinagol[edit] The term saksak sinagol in context means "a collection of miscellaneous things" and literally "inserted mixture", thus those other few Cebuano-influenced regions that have a variety of regional languages uses this term to refer to their dialect with considerable incorporated Cebuano words. Example of these regions are places likes those in Masbate. Examples[edit] Numbers[edit] Cebuano uses two numeral systems: The native system (currently) is mostly used in counting the number of things, animate and inanimate, e.g. the number of horses, houses. The spanish-derived system, on the other hand, is exclusively applied in monetary terminology and is also commonly used in counting from 11 and above. Number Native Cebuano Spanish-derived 0 walà nulo, sero 1 usá uno 2 duhá dos 3 tuló tres 4 upát kwatro 5 limá singko 6 unóm says (sáyis) 7 pitó site (siyéte) 8 waló otso 9 siyám nuybe (nuwébe) 10 napulò, pulò dyes (diyés) 11 napúlog usá onse 12 napúlog duhá dose 13 napúlog tuló trese 14 napúlog upát katórse 15 napúlog limá kinse 16 napúlog unóm disesáys (diyésesáyis) 17 napúlog pitó disesite 18 napúlog waló diseotso 19 napúlog siyám disenuybe 20 kawháan (kaduháan) baynte (beyínte) 21 kawháag usá baynte uno 22 kawháag duhá baynte dos 23 kawháag tuló baynte tres 24 kawháag upát baynte kwatro 25 kawháag limá bayntsingko (bayntesingko) 30 katló-an (katuló-an) traynta (treyínta) 40 kap-atan (kaupátan) kwarénta 50 kalím-an (kalimá-an) singkwénta 60 kan-uman (ka-unóman) saysénta (sesénta) 70 kapitó-an seténta 80 kawaló-an otsénta 90 kasiyáman nobénta 100 usá ka gatós siyén, sento (siyénto) 200 duhá ka gatós doséntos (dosiyéntos) 300 tuló ka gatós treséntos (tresiyéntos) 400 upát ka gatós kwatroséntos (kwatrosiyéntos) 500 limá ka gatós kinéntos (kiniyéntos) 1,000 usá ka libo mil 5,000 limá ka libo singko mil 10,000 usá ka laksà, napulò ka libo dyes mil 50,000 limá ka laksà, kalím-an ka libo singkwénta mil 100,000 napulò ka laksà, usá ka gatós ka líbo siyén mil, siyénto mil 1,000,000 usá ka yukót milyón 1,000,000,000 usá ka wakát bilyón See also[edit] Language portal Boholano dialect Cebuano grammar Cebuano literature Cebuano people Languages of the Philippines Notes[edit] ^ "Definition of Cebuan". www.merriam-webster.com. Retrieved 7 May 2017. ^ The Komisyon sa Wikang Filipino, the official regulating body of Philippine languages, spells the name of the language as Sebwano. ^ "Definition of Cebuano". www.merriam-webster.com. Retrieved 6 September 2018. ^ "Definition of Cebu". www.merriam-webster.com. Retrieved 6 September 2018. ^ "Cebu (province)". TheFreeDictionary.com. Retrieved 6 September 2018. ^ Cebuano at Ethnologue (22nd ed., 2019) ^ Hammarström, Harald; Forkel, Robert; Haspelmath, Martin, eds. (2017). "Cebuano". Glottolog 3.0. Jena, Germany: Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History. ^ The reference to the language as Binisaya is not encouraged by many linguists due to the many languages within the Visayan language group that may be confused with the term. ^ "Cebuano". Ethnologue. Retrieved 6 September 2018. ^ Ammon, Ulrich; Dittmar, Norbert; Mattheier, Klaus J.; Trudgill, Peter (2006). Sociolinguistics: An International Handbook of the Science of Language and Society. Volume 3. Walter de Gruyter. p. 2018. ISBN 9783110184181. ^ a b c d Wolff, John U. (1972). A Dictionary of Cebuano Visayan (PDF). Gutenberg.ph. Cornell University, Southeast Asia Program and Linguistic Society of the Philippines. Archived from the original (PDF) on 30 September 2018. Retrieved 7 May 2017. ^ a b c Wolff, John U. (2001). "Cebuano" (PDF). In Garry, Jane; Galvez Rubino, Carl R. (eds.). Facts About the World's Languages: An Encyclopedia of the World's Major Languages, Past and Present. New York: H. W. Wilson. ^ a b Pangan, John Kingsley (2016). Church of the Far East. Makati: St. Pauls. p. 19. ^ Zorc, David Paul (1977). The Bisayan Dialects of the Philippines: Subgrouping and Reconstruction. Pacific Linguistics Series C - No. 44. Canberra, Australia: Dept. of Linguistics, Research School of Pacific Studies, Australian National University. doi:10.15144/PL-C44. hdl:1885/146594. ISBN 0858831570. ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p Endriga 2010 ^ "Cebuano language, alphabet and pronunciation". Omniglot.com. Retrieved 22 May 2015. ^ "Alphabets Des Philippines" (JPG). S-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com. Retrieved 7 May 2017. ^ Eleanor, Maria (16 July 2011). "Finding the "Aginid"". philstar.com. Retrieved 7 May 2017. ^ "Cebuano". www.alsintl.com. Archived from the original on 7 April 2015. Retrieved 22 May 2015. ^ a b "Cebuano Phonetics and Orthography" (PDF). Dila. Retrieved 16 September 2016. ^ a b Thompson, Irene (11 July 2013). "Cebuano". About World Languages. Retrieved 16 September 2016. ^ Steinkrüger, Patrick O. (2008). "Hispanisation processes in the Philippines". In Stolz, Thomas; Bakker, Dik; Palomo, Rosa Salas (eds.). Hispanisation: The Impact of Spanish on the Lexicon and Grammar of the Indigenous Languages of Austronesia and the Americas. Walter de Gruyter. pp. 203–236. ISBN 9783110207231. ^ Morrow, Paul (16 March 2011). "The basics of Filipino pronunciation: Part 2 of 3 • accent marks". Pilipino Express. Retrieved 18 July 2012. ^ Nolasco, Ricardo M.D. Grammar notes on the national language (PDF). Fhl.digitalsolutions.ph. [permanent dead link] ^ Schoellner, Joan; Heinle, Beverly D., eds. (2007). Tagalog Reading Booklet (PDF). Simon & Schister's Pimsleur. pp. 5–6. Archived from the original (PDF) on 27 November 2013. Retrieved 16 September 2016. ^ Bollas, Abigail A. (2013), Comparative Analysis on the Phonology of Tagalog, Cebuano, and Itawis, University of the Philippines - Diliman ^ Verstraelen, Eugene (1961). "Some further remarks about the L-feature". Philippine Studies. 9 (1): 72–77. ^ Kuizon, Jose G. (1964). "The Sanskrit Loan-Words in the Cebuano-Bisayan Language". Asian Folklore Studies. 23 (1): 111–158. doi:10.2307/1177640. JSTOR 1177640. ^ "Useful Cebuano phrases". Omniglot. Retrieved 25 December 2016. ^ "Wala / Dili". Learn Cebuano: Cebuano-Visayan Language Lessons. Retrieved 18 June 2011. ^ Curtis D. McFarland (2008). "Linguistic diversity and English in the Philippines". In Maria Lourdes S. Bautista & Kingsley Bolton (ed.). Philippine English: Linguistic and Literary. Hong Kong University Press. p. 137–138. ISBN 9789622099470. ^ "10 Fun Facts about Cagayan de Oro". About Cagayan de Oro. 5 February 2016. Retrieved 6 September 2018. ^ "Atchup Boulevard Explained". www.ilovedavao.com. Retrieved 6 September 2018. ^ Nissan, Ephraim (2012). "Asia at Both Ends: An Introduction to Etymythology, with a Response to Chapter Nine". In Zuckermann, Ghil‘ad (ed.). Burning Issues in Afro-Asiatic Linguistics. Cambridge Scholars Publishing. p. 299. ISBN 9781443864626. ^ Meierkord, Christiane (2012). Interactions Across Englishes: Linguistic Choices in Local and International Contact Situations. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. p. 209. ISBN 9780521192286. ^ "Cebuano". Ethnologue. Retrieved 28 December 2016. ^ Dingwall, Alastair (1994). Traveller's Literary Companion to South-East Asia. In Print Publishing, Limited. p. 372. ISBN 9781873047255. ^ Blake, Frank R. (1905). "The Bisayan Dialects". Journal of the American Oriental Society. 26 (1905): 120–136. doi:10.2307/592885. JSTOR 592885. ^ Gonzalez, Andrew (1991). "Cebuano and Tagalog: Ethnic Rivalry Redivivus". In Dow, James R. (ed.). Focus on Language and Ethnicity. Volume 2. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins Publishing. p. 115–116. ISBN 9789027220813. References[edit] Endriga, Divine Angeli (2010). The Dialectology of Cebuano: Bohol, Cebu and Davao. 1st Philippine Conference Workshop on Mother Tongue-Based Multilingual Education held from February 18-20, 2010. Capitol University, Cagayan de Oro. External links[edit] Cebuano edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Wikivoyage has a phrasebook for Cebuano. Bansa.org Cebuano Dictionary Cebuano Dictionary Cebuano English Searchable Dictionary John U. Wolff, A Dictionary of Cebuano Visayan: Volume I, Volume II, searchable interface, Downloadable text at Project Gutenberg Ang Dila Natong Bisaya Lagda Sa Espeling Rules of Spelling (Cebuano) Language Links.org - Philippine Languages to the world - Cebuano Lessons Language Links.org - Philippine Languages to the World Online E-book of Spanish-Cebuano Dictionary, published in 1898 by Fr. Felix Guillén Cebuano dictionary Online bible, video and audio files, publications and other bible study material in Cebuano language [1] v t e Bisayan languages Asi Asi Cebuan Cebuano Boholano Central Romblomanon Warayan Baybayanon Kinabalian Waray South Sorsogon (Gubat) Peripheral Ati Bantayanon Capiznon Hiligaynon Porohanon Masbateño North Sorsogon (Masbate) West Aklanon Caluyanon Kinaray-a Onhan Kuyan Cuyonon Ratagnon South Surigaonon Butuan-Tausug Butuanon Tausug (unclassified) Karolanos Magahat See also: Visayan peoples v t e Philippine languages Batanic (Bashiic) Itbayat Ivatan Yami Northern Luzon Ilocano Arta † Dicamay Agta † Cagayan Valley Ibanag Isnag Atta Itawis Yogad Cagayan Agta Gaddang Ga'dang South–Central Cordilleran Pangasinan Northern Alta Southern Alta Isinai Itneg Kalinga Ifugao Tuwali ? Balangao Bontok-Finallig Kankanaey Ilongot Ibaloi Iwaak Kalanguya Karao Central Luzon Kapampangan Remontado Agta (Sinauna) Sambalic Abellen Ambala Bolinao Botolan Mag-antsi Mag-indi Mariveleño Sambal Northern Mindoro Alangan Iraya Tadyawan Greater Central Philippine Southern Mindoro Buhid Hanuno'o Tawbuid Central Philippine Tagalogic Tagalog Kasiguranin Bikol Central Bikol Isarog Agta Mount Iraya Agta Albay Bikol Mount Iriga Agta Rinconada Pandan Bikol Bisayan Cebuano Boholano ? Hiligaynon Waray Tausug Karay-a Sulod Aklanon Capiznon Asi Baybay Kabalian Bantayanon Porohanon Romblomanon Caluyanon Onhan Cuyonon Ratagnon Surigaonon Butuanon Masbateño Sorsoganon Mansakan Davawenyo Kalagan Kamayo Mamanwa Mandaya Mansaka (unclassified) Karolanos Magahat Ata † Palawan Aborlan Tagbanwa Central Tagbanwa Palawan Batak Palawano Subanen Subanen Danao Maguindanao Maranao Iranun Manobo Agusan Ata Manobo Matigsalug Obo Ilianen Western Bukidnon Binukid Higaonon Kagayanen Kamigin Cotabato Manobo Sarangani Tagabawa Gorontalo–Mongondow Bolango Buol Bintauna Gorontalo Kaidipang Lolak Suwawa Mongondow Ponosakan Kalamian Agutaynen Calamian Tagbanwa Bilic Giangan B'laan T'boli Tiruray Sangiric Sangirese Talaud Bantik Ratahan Minahasan Tonsawang Tontemboan Tombulu Tondano Tonsea Unclassified Umiray Dumaget Ati Manide-Inagta Inagta Alabat Manide † indicates extinct status ? indicates classification dispute v t e Languages of the Philippines Official languages Filipino English Regional languages Aklanon Bikol Cebuano Chavacano Hiligaynon Ibanag Ilocano Ivatan Kapampangan Karay-a Maguindanao Maranao Pangasinan Sambal Surigaonon Tagalog Tausug Waray Yakan Indigenous languages (by region) Luzon Ilocos Bolinao Cordillera Atta Balangao Bontoc Ga'dang Kalanguya Kalinga Kankanaey Ibaloi Ifugao Isnag Itneg Itawis Iwaak Malaweg Tuwali Cagayan Valley Arta Atta Central Cagayan Agta Dinapigue Agta Dupaningan Agta Gaddang Ilongot Isinai Itbayat Itawis Kalanguya Karao Malaweg Nagtipunan Agta Paranan Agta Paranan Yogad Central Luzon Abellen Ambala Antsi Botolan Casiguran Dumagat Agta Indi Kasiguranin Mariveleño Northern Alta Southern Alta Umiray Dumaget Metro Manila Taglish Calabarzon Inagta Alabat Manide Remontado Agta Southern Alta Umiray Dumaget Mimaropa Agutaynen Alangan Asi Calamian Tagbanwa Central Tagbanwa Cuyonon Iraya Kagayanen Molbog Onhan Palawan Batak Palawano Ratagnon Romblomanon Tadyawan Bicol Albay Bikol Inagta Partido Manide Masbateño Mount Iraya Agta Pandan Bikol Rinconada Bikol Sorsoganon Southern Catanduanes Bikol Visayas Western Visayas Ata Ati Caluyanon Capiznon Sulod Central Visayas Bantayanon Eskayan Karolanos Magahat Porohanon Eastern Visayas Abaknon Baybay Kabalian Mindanao Zamboanga Peninsula Subanon Northern Mindanao Bukid Higaonon Ilianen Iranun Kamigin Matigsalug Subanon Western Bukidnon Caraga Agusan Ata Manobo Butuanon Higaonon Kamayo Mamanwa Davao Blaan Davaoeño Giangan Kalagan Mandaya Mansaka Obo Sangirese Sarangani Tagabawa Soccsksargen Blaan Cotabato Manobo Ilianen Iranun Obo Tboli Tiruray Bangsamoro Iranun Pangutaran Sama Sama Immigrant languages Arabic Basque Chinese Hokkien Mandarin French German Japanese Korean Malay Indonesian Malaysian Sindhi Spanish Vietnamese Sign languages American Sign Philippine Sign Historical languages Proto-Philippine Old Tagalog v t e India-related topics in Philippines articles History Maritime Southeast Asia History of Indian influence on Southeast Asia Tabon Caves Garuda Gold Pendant Golden Tara Laguna Copperplate Inscription Indianized kingdom in Philippines and Indian cultural influences in early Philippine polities Srivijaya Majapahit Kedatuan of Madja-as Kingdom of Butuan Maynila (historical entity) Kingdom of Namayan Rajahnate of Cebu (Rajah Humabon at Singhapala city) Rajah Matanda Rajah Sulayman Sultanate of Maguindanao Sultanate of Lanao Sultanate of Sulu Tondo (Historical State) Battle of Manila (1762) Geography Indosphere Greater India Indian settlement in the Philippines Cainta historic settlement of Indians Religion Religion in pre-colonial Philippines had Indianized Hindu and Buddhist influence Buddhism in Southeast Asia Buddhism in the Philippines Hinduism in Southeast Asia Aswang (Asura) Diwata Hinduism in the Philippines Philippine mythology Deities of Philippine mythology Philippine folk literature Nanak Darbar Indian Sikh Temple, Iloilo Politics India–Philippines relations Tourism in the Philippines Visa requirements for Indian citizens Tourism in India Visa requirements for Philippine citizens Filipinos in India Language Indianized ancient Filipino script Indian loanwords in various Filipino languages Influence of Indian languages on Tagalog language Sanskrit language loanwords in Tagalog language Tamil language loanwords in Tagalog language Sanskrit language loanwords in Cebuano language Sampaguita Filipino national flower is named from Indian sanskrit Champaka Economy Maritime Southeast Asia Murrah buffalo from Haryana imported to Philippine from Central Institute for Research on Buffaloes, Hisar, Haryana, India to Philippine Carabao Center in Nueva Ecija Business process outsourcing to India Business process outsourcing in the Philippines Indian Companies Culture Pre-Spanish Indian traditions of Philippines Filipino pre-colonial styles and titles National Assembly of the Philippines Hall has the statue of ancient Hindu saint Manu behind the president's seat Kudyapi guitar influenced by the Indian classical music Filipino martial arts inspired by the Indian martial arts Alim and Hudhud of Ifugao based on Indian Hindu epics Ramayana and Mahabharta Hudhud - the Ifugao epic based on the Indian epic Mahabharta Biag ni Lam-ang Ilocano epic based on the Indian Hindu epics Ramayana and Mahabharta Ibalong epic of Bicol based on Indian epics Ramayana and Mahabharta Darangen epic of Maranao people based on Indian epics Ramayana Pangalay or Daling Daling (fingernail dance of Sulu and Sabah) Cuisine People People Indian Filipino List of Filipino-Indian people Indian surnames in Philippines Ethnic groups in the Philippines Foreign citizens residing in Philippines Indian people Dr. Leticia Ramos-Shahani - sister of former President Fidel Ramos is married to an Indian Dang Cecilio (Binibining Pilipinas 1979) Janina San Miguel (Binibining Pilipinas 2008) Venus Raj (Binibining Pilipinas 2010) Parul Shah (Binibining Pilipinas Tourism 2014) Ramon Bagatsing (Manila mayor) Raymond Bagatsing (actor) Cassandra Ponti (actress) Chanda Romero (actress) Dawn Zulueta (actress) Gardo Versoza (actress) Melanie Marquez (director) Pepe Diokno Sharmaine Arnaiz (actress) Zia Marquez (actress) Jose Diokno (politician) Dr. Juan R. Francisco (Indologist) Dr. Josephine Acosta Pasricha (Indologist) Category Authority control GND: 4147432-6 NDL: 00570247 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cebuano_language&oldid=947494032" Categories: Cebuano language Verb–subject–object languages Hidden categories: Language articles citing Ethnologue 22 CS1: long volume value All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from November 2018 Articles with permanently dead external links Articles with short description Use dmy dates from August 2017 Languages with ISO 639-2 code All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from January 2020 Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with NDL identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikivoyage Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans ??????? Asturianu Az?rbaycanca ?????? ????? Bân-lâm-gú ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)? Bikol Central ????????? Brezhoneg Català Cebuano ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Fiji Hindi Français Galego ???/Hak-kâ-ngî ??? ??????? ?????? Hrvatski Ilokano Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano ????? Jawa Kapampangan ??????? Kiswahili ???? Latina Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvi? Ligure Magyar ?????? ?????????? ????????? ???? Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ????? ???? ??? Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Pangasinan ?????? Piemontèis Polski Português Român? Runa Simi ??????? Scots Simple English Sloven?ina ?????? / srpski Suomi Svenska Tagalog ????? ??? Türkçe ?????????? ???? Vèneto Ti?ng Vi?t Winaray ?? ?? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 26 March 2020, at 17:29 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
