Chinese Wikipedia - Wikipedia Chinese Wikipedia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Standard Chinese language edition of Wikipedia This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article's factual accuracy may be compromised due to out-of-date information. Please update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (March 2013) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Chinese Wikipedia" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (September 2008) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (December 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article may be expanded with text translated from the corresponding article in Chinese. (August 2012) Click [show] for important translation instructions. View a machine-translated version of the Chinese article. Machine translation like DeepL or Google Translate is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary Content in this edit is translated from the existing Chinese Wikipedia article at [[:zh:??????]]; see its history for attribution. You should also add the template {{Translated|zh|??????}} to the talk page. For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation. Chinese Wikipedia ???? / ?????? Screenshot Main Page of the Chinese Wikipedia Type of site Internet encyclopedia project Available in Written vernacular Chinese Owner Wikimedia Foundation URL zh.wikipedia.org Commercial No Registration Optional Launched 11 May 2001; 18 years ago (2001-05-11) Current status Active but banned in Mainland China. Chinese Wikipedia Traditional Chinese ?????? Simplified Chinese ?????? Literal meaning Chinese-language Wiki-encyclopedia Transcriptions Standard Mandarin Hanyu Pinyin Zh?ngwén Wéij? B?ik? Gwoyeu Romatzyh Jongwen Weiji Baeke Wade–Giles Chung¹wên² Wei²chi¹ Pai³k'ê¹ Tongyong Pinyin Jhongwún Wéiji B?ike IPA [?????w??n we?it?i? pa?ik???] Yue: Cantonese Yale Romanization J?ngmàhn Wàihg?i Baakf? Jyutping Zung¹man? Wai?gei¹ Baak³fo¹ Canton Romanization Zung¹men? Wei?géi¹ Bag³fo¹ IPA [ts???m??n w??ikéip??kf???] The Chinese Wikipedia (traditional Chinese: ??????; simplified Chinese: ??????; pinyin: Zh?ngwén Wéij? B?ik?) is the Written vernacular Chinese (a form of Mandarin Chinese) edition of Wikipedia. It is run by the Wikimedia Foundation. Started on 11 May 2001,[1] the Chinese Wikipedia currently has about 1,106,000 articles and about 2,849,000 registered users, of which 84 have administrative privileges. The Chinese Wikipedia has been blocked in Mainland China since May 2015.[2] Contents 1 History 2 Naming 3 Topics 4 Community 4.1 Origin of edits 4.2 Origin of readers 4.3 Administrators 4.4 Meetings 4.5 Systemic bias 5 Automatic conversion between traditional and simplified Chinese characters 5.1 Original situation 5.2 Solution 6 Differences with other versions of Wikipedia 7 Wikipedia in other varieties of Chinese 8 Blocking of Wikipedia 8.1 First block 8.2 Second block 8.3 Third block and temporary unblocks 8.4 Fourth block 8.5 Fifth block 9 Self-censorship allegations 10 Competitors 11 See also 11.1 Wikipedia articles 11.2 Meta-wiki articles 12 References 13 External links History[edit] A person browsing the Chinese Wikipedia on a touchscreen device. The Chinese Wikipedia was established along with 12 other Wikipedias in May 2001. At the beginning, however, the Chinese Wikipedia did not support Chinese characters, and had no encyclopedic content. In October 2002, the first Chinese-language page was written, the Main Page. A software update on 27 October 2002 allowed Chinese language input. The domain was set to be zh.wikipedia.org, with zh based on the ISO code for the Chinese language. On 17 November 2002, the user Mountain translated the Computer science article into zh:?????, thus creating its first real encyclopedic article. In order to accommodate the orthographic differences between simplified Chinese characters and traditional Chinese characters (or Orthodox Chinese), from 2002 to 2003, the Chinese Wikipedia community gradually decided to combine the two originally separate versions of the Chinese Wikipedia. The first running automatic conversion between the two orthographic representations started on 23 December 2004, with the MediaWiki 1.4 release. The needs from Hong Kong and Singapore were taken into account in the MediaWiki 1.4.2 release, which made the conversion table for zh-sg default to zh-cn, and zh-hk default to zh-tw.[3] In its early days, most articles on the Chinese Wikipedia were translated from the English version. The first five sysops, or administrators, were promoted on 14 June 2003. Wikipedia was first introduced by the mainland Chinese media[citation needed] in the newspaper China Computer Education on 20 October 2003, in the article, "I join to write an encyclopedia" (????????).[4] On 16 May 2004, Wikipedia was first reported by Taiwanese media in the newspaper China Times. Since then, many newspapers have published articles about the Chinese Wikipedia, and several sysops have been interviewed by journalists. Ivan Zhai of the South China Morning Post wrote that the blocks from the Mainland authorities in the 2000s stifled the growth of the Chinese Wikipedia, and that by 2013 there was a new generation of users originating from the Mainland who were taking efforts to make the Chinese Wikipedia grow. In 2013, there were 1.4 million registered users on the Chinese Wikipedia, and in July 2013 7,500 of these users were active, with most of them originating from Hong Kong and Taiwan. 715,000 entries for the Chinese Wikipedia, making it the 12th largest Wikipedia.[5] Naming[edit] The Chinese name of Wikipedia was decided on 1 October 2003, following a vote. The name (simplified Chinese: ????; traditional Chinese: ????; pinyin: Wéij? B?ik?) means "Wiki Encyclopedia". The Chinese transcription of "Wiki" is composed of two characters: ?/?, whose ancient sense refers to 'ropes or webs connecting objects', and alludes to the 'Internet'; and ?, meaning the 'foundations of a building', or 'fundamental aspects of things in general'. The name can be interpreted as 'the encyclopedia that connects the fundamental knowledge of humanity'. The most common Chinese translation for wiki technology is ??/??; however, it can be ??/?? (literally "dimension visitor" or similar) or ??/?? (literally "circle/enclose period/record" or similar), which are also transcriptions of the word "wiki". As a result, the term ??/?? has become associated exclusively with Wikimedia projects.[6] The Chinese Wikipedia also has a subtitle: ?????????/?????????. It means, "The sea encompasses hundreds of rivers/all rivers will eventually flow into the sea; it has capacity i.e. is willing to accept all and is thus great." The subtitle is the first half of a couplet composed by the Qing Dynasty official Lin Zexu. Topics[edit] In 2019 the Chinese Wikipedia has 395 thousand unique categories and 25.57% of them do not have appropriate page in the category namespace. The average article in this language version has 12 categories, while number of unique categories per articles ratio is 0.376. The largest number of articles are present in the Geography (14%) and Culture (12%) categories. In Chinese Wikipedia articles related to Crime and Entertainment have the highest average quality. Content about Entertainment is read more often and has the highest authors' interest on average.[7] Community[edit] Origin of edits[edit] Origin of edits (November 2011 - October 2012) Source Country/Region % of edits  Taiwan ? 37.0%  Hong Kong ? 26.3%  China (Mainland) ? 20.9%  United States ? 5.4%  Canada ? 1.9%  Malaysia ? 1.3%  Australia ? 1.2%  Macau ? 1.1%  Japan ? 0.7%   Switzerland ? 0.7%  Netherlands ? 0.6%  United Kingdom ? 0.6%  Germany ? 0.5% Other ? 1.8% Origin of edits (January 2014 - March 2014) Source Country/Region % of edits  China (Mainland) ? 43.4%  Taiwan ? 31.4%  Hong Kong ? 15.3%  United States ? 2.0%  Australia ? 1.7%  Malaysia ? 1.6%  Japan ? 0.8%  Canada ? 0.7%  United Kingdom ? 0.5%  Macau ? 0.5% Other ? 2.0% Origin of readers[edit] Location of readers (November 2011 - October 2012) Source Country/Region % of views  Taiwan ? 34.9%  China (Mainland) ? 33.0%  Hong Kong ? 17.2%  United States ? 4.6%  Malaysia ? 1.7%  Canada ? 1.5%  United Kingdom ? 1.0%  Australia ? 1.0%  Macau ? 0.9%  Japan ? 0.7%  Germany ? 0.5% other ? 3.0% Location of readers (January 2014 - March 2014) Source Country/Region % of views  China (Mainland) ? 36.6%  Taiwan ? 33.1%  Hong Kong ? 12.9%  United States ? 4.9%  Malaysia ? 2.0%  Canada ? 1.7%  United Kingdom ? 1.1%  Australia ? 0.9%  Macau ? 0.8%  Japan ? 0.7%  Germany ? 0.5%  Singapore ? 0.5% Other ? 2.6% Page view statistics as of July 2012 In April 2016, the project had 2127 active editors who made at least five edits in that month. Chinese Wikipedia contributors come from a variety of backgrounds. Just as English Wikipedia tends to be more detailed in western-related topics, the Chinese Wikipedia has very detailed descriptions of China-related topics. Within that region, the Chinese Wikipedia tends to be more detailed in topics about Hong Kong, Taiwan, and the wealthy east coast provinces of mainland China.[citation needed] Also due to the geographical origin of its participants, the most discussed and debated topics on the Chinese Wikipedia are political issues in Chinese modern history. For example, the six most edited articles as of August 2007 were Taiwan, Chinese culture, China, Mao Zedong, Chiang Kai-shek, and Hong Kong, in that order. In contrast, issues such as the Israel-Palestinian conflict are much less contentious.[citation needed] Due to the audience base, Wikipedians from Mainland, Taiwan, and other areas had engaged in editing conflicts over political topics related to Cross-Straits relations.[8] Administrators[edit] As of June 2019, there are 78 administrators, or sysops. They are all elected by Chinese Wikipedians. Most of them come from Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. There are also a few who come from the United States, Singapore, and Japan. Meetings[edit] 2013 Winter-Break-Meetup, Dalian, Liaoning, China. The first Chinese Wikipedian meeting was held in Beijing on 25 July 2004. Since then, Chinese Wikipedians from different regions have held many gatherings in Beijing, Shanghai, Dalian, Shenyang, Guangdong, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. Currently, a regular meetup is held once every two weeks in Shanghai, Taipei and Hong Kong, and once every month in Tainan City, Taiwan. In July 2006, Taiwanese Wikipedians also held a "travelling meetup", travelling by train through four Taiwanese cities over a period of two days. In August 2006, Hong Kong hosted the first annual Chinese Wikimedia Conference. Chinese Wikipedians advertise Wikipedia in different ways. Many of them use weibo, a Chinese socializing website similar to Twitter. Several Chinese Wikipedians created the Wikipedia monthly magazine, or journal, called "The Wikipedians" in December 2012, which is currently published once a month. Systemic bias[edit] In order to avoid systemic bias, editors are advised to avoid writing from the point of view of China or any other country/region; to avoid using terms such as ??/?? ("our country"; referring to the People's Republic of China or the Republic of China, depending on viewpoint), ?? ("this port"; referring to Hong Kong), or ?? ("this Macau", referring to Macau); and instead, to refer to locations in the Chinese-speaking sphere or periods in Chinese history by explicitly stating China (e.g. "Yunnan province, China", instead of just "Yunnan province"). Automatic conversion between traditional and simplified Chinese characters[edit] Original situation[edit] Originally, there were virtually two Chinese Wikipedias under the names of "zh" (or "zh-cn") and "zh-tw". Generally, users from regions that used Traditional Chinese characters (such as Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Macau) wrote and edited articles using Traditional Chinese characters whereas those from regions that used Simplified Chinese characters (such as mainland China, Singapore, and Malaysia) wrote using Simplified Chinese characters. Many articles had two uncoordinated versions; for example, there was both a Traditional (??) and Simplified (??) article on France. Further exacerbating the problem were differences in vocabulary (particularly nouns) and writing systems, between mainland China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Singapore that developed through their relative lack of communications during much of the 20th century[citation needed]. For example, a computer printer is called ??? in mainland China, but ??? in Taiwan. Solution[edit] To avoid this near-forking of the project, starting around January 2005, the Chinese Wikipedia began providing a server-side mechanism to automatically convert different characters and vocabulary items into the user's local ones, according to the user's preference settings, which may be set to one of two settings that convert the script only, or one of six settings that also take into account regional vocabulary differences: Variant's name Chinese name iso Effect Simplified ?? zh-Hans Traditional ?? zh-Hant Simplified and using Mainland Chinese terms ???? zh-CN Traditional and using Taiwanese terms ???? zh-TW Simplified and using Singaporean (and until mid 2018, Malaysian) terms ????? (???? until mid 2018) zh-SG Simplified and using Malaysian terms (added in mid 2018) ???? zh-MY Traditional and using Hong Kong terms ???? zh-HK Traditional and using Macau terms ???? zh-MO NB: the user can also choose to read each article in whichever script it is stored in, without conversion For more information, see: meta:Automatic conversion between simplified and traditional Chinese. Conversion is done through a set of character conversion tables that may be edited by administrators. To provide an alternative means to harmonize the characters when the server-side converters fail to work properly, a special template was created to manually convert characters and article titles in one specific page. Furthermore, page title conversion is used for automatic page redirection. Those articles previously named in different characters or different translations have been merged, and can be reached by means of both Traditional and Simplified Chinese titles. Differences with other versions of Wikipedia[edit] According to a survey conducted between April 2010 and March 2011, edits to the Chinese Wikipedia were 37.8% from Taiwan, 26.2% from Hong Kong, 17.7% from Mainland China, 6.1% from United States and 2.3% from Canada.[9] Many editing controversies arise from current and historical political events in Chinese-speaking regions, such as the political status of Taiwan, independent movement and autonomy movement of Hong Kong, Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, issues of the Communist Party of China and Kuomintang.[citation needed] Speedy deletion works in a similar way to the policy on the English Wikipedia, but proposed deletion is unavailable. Wikipedia in other varieties of Chinese[edit] The countries in which the Chinese Wikipedia is the most popular language version of Wikipedia are shown in blue. Other countries are shown in yellow.[10] Chinese Wikipedia Page view ratio by country between March 2012 to February 2013. The Chinese Wikipedia is based on written vernacular Chinese, the official Chinese written language in all Chinese-speaking regions, including mainland China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Macau, and Singapore. This register is largely associated with the grammar and vocabulary of Standard Chinese, the official spoken language of mainland China, Taiwan, and Singapore (but not exclusively of Hong Kong and Macau, which largely use Cantonese). The varieties of Chinese are a diverse group encompassing many regional varieties, most of which are mutually unintelligible and often divided up into several larger dialect groups, such as Wu (including Shanghainese and Suzhounese), Min Nan (of which Taiwanese is a notable dialect), and Cantonese. In regions that speak non-Mandarin languages or regional Mandarin dialects, the Vernacular Chinese standard largely corresponding to Standard Chinese is nevertheless used exclusively as the Chinese written standard; this written standard differs sharply from the local dialects in vocabulary and grammar, and is often read in local pronunciation but preserving the vocabulary and grammar of Standard Chinese. After the founding of Wikipedia, many users of non-Mandarin Chinese varieties began to ask for the right to have Wikipedia editions in non-Mandarin varieties as well. However, they also met with significant opposition, based on the fact that Mandarin-based Vernacular Chinese is the only form used in scholarly or academic contexts. Some also proposed the implementation of an automatic conversion program similar to that between Simplified and Traditional Chinese; however, others pointed out that although conversion between Simplified and Traditional Chinese consists mainly of glyph and sometimes vocabulary substitutions, different regional varieties of Chinese differ so sharply in grammar, syntax, and semantics that it was unrealistic to implement an automatic conversion program. Objections notwithstanding, it was determined that these Chinese varieties were sufficiently different from Standard Chinese and had a sufficiently large number of followers to justify the creation of six Wikipedias for different varieties. Edition name WP code Variety Writing system Cantonese Wikipedia zh-yue: Yue, using Cantonese (i.e. the Guangzhou/Hong Kong/Macau dialect) as its standard. Traditional and Simplified Minnan Wikipedia zh-min-nan: Southern Min, using Taiwanese as its standard. Latin (Pe?h-?e-j?) and Traditional Mindong Wikipedia cdo: Eastern Min, using Fuzhounese as its standard. Latin (Bàng-uâ-cê) and Traditional[11] Wu Wikipedia wuu: Wu, using the Shanghainese, Suzhounese and classical literary Wu as its standards. Simplified Hakka Wikipedia hak: Hakka, using the Siyen dialect as its standard. Latin (Pha?k-fa-s?) and Traditional[12] Gan Wikipedia gan: Gan, using the Nanchang dialect as its standard. Traditional and Simplified Finally, requests were also made, and granted, to create a Classical Chinese Wikipedia (zh-classical:), based on Classical Chinese, an archaic register of Chinese with grammar and vocabulary drawn from classical works and used in all official contexts until the early 20th century, when it was displaced by the Vernacular Chinese standard. All of the above Wikipedias have sidestepped the Traditional/Simplified Chinese issue. The Wu Wikipedia uses Simplified Chinese exclusively, and the Classical Chinese Wikipedia uses Traditional Chinese exclusively (The Gan and Cantonese Wikipedias default to Traditional, but have a conversion function similar to the Chinese Wikipedia). The Min Nan Wikipedia uses Pe?h-?e-j?. The Mindong Wikipedia and Hakka Wikipedias currently use Bàng-uâ-cê and Pha?k-fa-s? respectively, which can be converted to Traditional Chinese characters, thus avoiding the issue completely. Blocking of Wikipedia[edit] See also: The Great Firewall § Circumvention The People's Republic of China and internet service providers in Mainland China have adopted a practice of blocking contentious Internet sites in mainland China, and Wikimedia sites have been blocked at least three times in its history.[13] On 19 May 2015, Chinese Wikipedia was blocked again within mainland China.[14] Because all Wikipedias rely on HTTPS links, Chinese censors cannot see what page an individual is viewing; this also makes it more difficult to block a specific set of pages. First block[edit] The first block lasted from 2 – 21 June 2004. It began when access to the Chinese Wikipedia from Beijing was blocked on the 15th anniversary of the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests. Possibly related to this, on 31 May an article from the IDG News Service was published,[15] discussing the Chinese Wikipedia's treatment of the protests. The Chinese Wikipedia also has articles related to Taiwan independence, written by contributors from Taiwan and elsewhere. A few days after the initial block of the Chinese Wikipedia, all Wikimedia Foundation sites were blocked in mainland China. In response to the blocks, two moderators prepared an appeal to lift the block and asked their regional internet service provider to submit it. All Wikimedia sites were unblocked between 17 and 21 June 2004. One month later, the first Chinese Wikipedian moderators' meeting was held in Beijing on 25 July 2004. The first block had an effect on the vitality of the Chinese Wikipedia, which suffered sharp dips in various indicators, such as the number of new users, the number of new articles, and the number of edits. In some cases, it took anywhere from 6 to 12 months in order to regain the stats from May 2004. On the other hand, on today's site, some of the articles are put under protection which may last for a month or more without any actions. Second block[edit] The second and less serious outage lasted between 23 and 27 September 2004. During this 4-day period, access to Wikipedia was erratic or unavailable to some users in mainland China — this block was not comprehensive and some users in mainland China were never affected. The exact reason for the block is a mystery. Chinese Wikipedians once again prepared a written appeal to regional ISPs, but the block was lifted before the appeal was actually sent, for an unknown reason. Third block and temporary unblocks[edit] The third block began on 19 October 2005, and there was no indication as to whether this block was temporary or permanent, or what the reasons or causes for this block were. According to the status page currently maintained on the Chinese Wikipedia, the Florida and Korea servers were blocked, whereas the Paris and Amsterdam servers were not. Dozens of editors from across mainland China reported that they could only access Wikipedia using proxy servers, although there were isolated reports that some users could access Wikipedia without using a proxy. Most Chinese people were not able to connect to the site at all. During October and November 2006, it first appeared that the site was unblocked again. Many conflicting reports came from news outlets, bloggers, and Wikipedians, reporting a possible partial or full unblocking of Wikipedia. Some reports indicated a complete unblock; others suggested that some sensitive topics remained blocked, and yet others suggested that the Chinese Wikipedia was blocked whereas other-language versions were not. From 17 November onwards, the complete block was once again in place. On 15 June 2007, China lifted the block for several articles, only to then block an increasing number of articles. On 30 August 2007, all blocks were lifted, but then a block was placed on Wikipedia for all languages on 31 August 2007.[13] As of 26 January 2008, all languages of Wikipedia were blocked,[13] and as of 2 April 2008, the block was lifted.[16] By 5 April 2008, the Chinese Wikipedia became difficult to access from the Sun Yat-Sen University in Guangzhou. Connections to the Chinese Wikipedia were completely blocked as of 6 April 2008. Any attempt to access the Chinese Wikipedia resulted in a 60-second ban on all Wikimedia websites. However, users were able to log on to the Chinese Wikipedia using https. All other languages were accessible, but politically sensitive searches such as Tibet were still blocked. On 3 July 2008, the government lifted the ban on accessing the Chinese Wikipedia. However, some parts were still inaccessible. On 31 July 2008, BBC reported that the Chinese Wikipedia had been unblocked that day in China; it had still been blocked the previous day. This came within the context of foreign journalists arriving in Beijing to report on the upcoming Olympic Games, and websites like the Chinese edition of the BBC were being unblocked following talks between the International Olympic Committee and the Games' Chinese organizers.[17] Fourth block[edit] On 19 May 2015 both the encrypted and unencrypted Chinese-language versions of Wikipedia were blocked.[18] Fifth block[edit] On 23 April 2019, the first pages of Wikipedia and Wikipedia projects in all languages including English were blocked by the Chinese government using DNS pollution. On 24 April 2019, on the basis of being blocked by DNS, all language versions of Wikipedia were blocked by SNI. Self-censorship allegations[edit] This section contains too many or overly lengthy quotations for an encyclopedic entry. Please help improve the article by presenting facts as a neutrally worded summary with appropriate citations. Consider transferring direct quotations to Wikiquote. (June 2017) In December 2006, the International Herald Tribune Asia-Pacific[19] published an article saying that sensitive topics received subdued treatment on the Chinese Wikipedia. But on sensitive questions of China's modern history or on hot-button issues, the Chinese version diverges so dramatically from its English counterpart that it sometimes reads as if it were approved by the censors themselves. For some, the Chinese version of Wikipedia was intended as just such a resource, but its tame approach to sensitive topics has sparked a fierce debate in the world of online mavens over its objectivity and thoroughness. On the evidence of entries like this, for the moment, the fight over editorial direction of Wikipedia in Chinese is being won by enthusiasts who practice self-censorship. On 1 December 2006, The New York Times published another report by Howard W. French, titled "Wikipedia lays bare two versions of China's past." Some say the object should be to spread reliable information as widely as possible, and that, in any case, self-censorship is pointless because the government still frequently blocks access to Wikipedia for most Chinese Internet users. 'There is a lot of confusion about whether they should obey the neutral point of view or offer some compromises to the government,' said Isaac Mao, a well-known Chinese blogger and user of the encyclopedia. 'To the local Wikipedians, the first objective is to make it well known among Chinese, to get people to understand the principles of Wikipedia step by step, and not to get the thing blocked by the government. The report was subsequently repeated by CBS[20] and by Chinese-language media outlets such as the Apple Daily in Taiwan. Some Chinese Wikipedians then tried to clarify the situation. One Chinese Wikipedian sent a comment that was subsequently published in the Apple Daily in Taiwan. The comment stated: ... control over our content does not stem from any political motive, and we try to the extent of our abilities (even if we cannot do it perfectly) to prevent the influence of ideology; the motive, goal, and standards of control are very clear: to create an encyclopedia with rich content, good quality, and open copyright. All of our editing and deletion policies stem from this. There is no doubt about this point, and this will not change under any political pressure or personal beliefs. Regarding the description of Mao Zedong on the Chinese Wikipedia, one can simply go online and see for oneself; in order to understand the operation of Wikipedia or to edit it oneself, just a few more mouse clicks would suffice. As Wikipedia continues to attract awareness, the number of users is increasing, and the media has increased interest in Wikipedia as well. Unfortunately, even a reputable international media source such as the New York Times was unable to find out the actual situation before passing biased judgment on Wikipedia. We can also see here that in quoting media overseas, even a notable one, one must still be cautious and check once again for oneself. (Translated)[21] In another email addressed to the Wikimedia Foundation mailing list, a Chinese Wikipedian stated:[citation needed] 1) Chinese Wikipedia has and conforms to a high standard of NPOV, and Chinese Wikipedians take this policy seriously. 2) There is no such thing called "self-censorship" at Chinese Wikipedia; indeed any intention for such practice at Chinese Wikipedia will be denounced by most Chinese Wikipedians. 3) Chinese Wikipedia is written by people from various places of the world, including Mainland China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Asia, America, Europe, etc. Indeed, editors from Mainland China are disproportionally scarce because of the current block obviously imposed by the PRC government (though it never admitted that). Previous proposals to self-censor the Chinese Wikipedia in light of the P. R. Chinese government's censorship policies have been made before, but were overwhelmingly rejected by the community.[22] In April 2010, Hong Kong newspaper Ming Pao reported the large-scale censorship of contents about Tiananmen Square protests of 1989 and other Hong Kong related contents in which an administrator named "Shizhao" ("???????" a.k.a. "??") was involved.[23] The report also mentioned the failed recall of the administrator.[23] In a follow-up, Ming Pao interviewed Shizhao and stated that he was not a member of the 50 Cent Party.[24] He added that for controversial topics such as the 1989 protests, he should be a little more cautious.[24] In the interview, he denied that he had attempted to delete an article about the Concert For Democracy in China (???????), and stated that he merely questioned the notability of the concert by adding a template to the article.[24] However, he had started a vote to delete an article about a song criticizing the Hong Kong government (Chinese: ??????; pinyin: Fú ji? sh?zh?ng y?u n?) in 2007, enraging many Hong Kong netizens.[24] Shizhao added that, at the time, he had already edited more than 50,000 times, deleting several articles including Manual for Librarians. He joked about the incident, saying, "some may consider that is a kind of hate to libraries and hence is not suitable for monitoring Wikipedia."[24] Competitors[edit] On 20 April 2006, the online Chinese search engine company Baidu created Baidu Baike, an online encyclopedia that registered users can edit, pending administrator reviews. The content of the encyclopedia is self-censored in accordance with the regulations of the People's Republic of China government. Within weeks, the number of articles in Baidu Baike had surpassed that of the Chinese Wikipedia. However, Baidu Baike has long been accused of copying and reproducing articles from Chinese Wikipedia.[25] As of October 2009, Hudong Wiki surpassed Baidu Baike as China's largest online encyclopedia in terms of number of articles it owns. Hudong has since been renamed to Baike, not to be confused with Baidu Baike. Baidu Baike and Hudong are both commercial products. Whereas the Chinese Wikipedia is released under the GNU Free Documentation License, Baidu Baike and Hudong are fully copyrighted by their ownership; contributors forfeit all rights upon submission. However, Baidu Baike has been accused of "widespread copyright infringement" by mass-copying Wikipedia pages and incorporating them into Baidu Baike pages since 2007.[26][27] See also[edit] Wikipedia portal China portal Hong Kong portal Taiwan portal Singapore portal Malaysia portal Wikipedia articles[edit] Censorship of Wikipedia § China Internet censorship in the People's Republic of China Politics of the People's Republic of China Golden Shield Project Chinese encyclopedias List of Wikipedias Wikipedia:Multilingual statistics Meta-wiki articles[edit] Comprehensive technical information about automatic conversion on the Chinese Wikipedia between Simplified and Traditional Chinese How to start a new Wikipedia m:List of Wikipedias References[edit] ^ Richey, Jason. "[Wikipedia-l] new language wikis". List.Wikimedia. Archived from the original on 6 January 2016. ^ "Wikipedia founder defends decision to encrypt the site in China". 4 September 2015. Archived from the original on 12 June 2018. Retrieved 17 April 2018. ^ "Files". SourceForge.net. 20 April 2005. Archived from the original on 5 November 2012. Retrieved 29 May 2012. ^ "????????." (Archive) ^ Zhai, Ivan. "Wiki reboot: Chinese Wikipedia makes comeback after early censorship Archived 24 September 2015 at the Wayback Machine." South China Morning Post. Monday 5 August 2013. Retrieved on 9 March 2014. ^ "MDBG.net". MDBG.net. Archived from the original on 5 February 2012. Retrieved 29 May 2012. ^ Lewoniewski, W?odzimierz; W?cel, Krzysztof; Abramowicz, Witold (2019). "Multilingual Ranking of Wikipedia Articles with Quality and Popularity Assessment in Different Topics". Computers. 8 (3): 60. doi:10.3390/computers8030060. ^ Tsoi, Grace. "Wikipedia China Becomes Front Line for Views on Language and Culture Archived 28 November 2018 at the Wayback Machine." The New York Times. 27 October 2013. Retrieved on 29 October 2013. ^ "Page Edits Per Wikipedia Language". statswikimedia. Archived from the original on 3 August 2011. Retrieved 9 August 2011. ^ Erik Zachte (14 November 2011). "Wikimedia Traffic Analysis Report - Wikipedia Page Views Per Country - Trends". Wikimedia Statistics. Archived from the original on 24 June 2011. Retrieved 19 January 2011. ^ cdo:???? ^ hak:???? ^ a b c Schwankert, Steven (6 September 2007). "Wikipedia Blocked in China Again". IDG News via PCworld. Archived from the original on 23 November 2007. Retrieved 26 January 2008. ^ ????????? Archived 27 May 2015 at the Wayback Machine?NetEase?Retrieved 19 May 2015. ^ "PCworld.com". PCworld.com. 4 June 1989. Archived from the original on 9 February 2006. Retrieved 29 May 2012. ^ Barak, Sylvie (3 April 2008). "China uncensors Wikipedia". The Inquirer. Archived from the original on 6 April 2008. Retrieved 3 April 2008. ^ "Beijing unblocks BBC Chinese site" Archived 5 August 2008 at the Wayback Machine, BBC, 31 July 2008. ^ Smith, Charlie (18 June 2015). "We Had Our Arguments, But We Will Miss You Wikipedia". Huffington Post. Archived from the original on 19 June 2015. Retrieved 30 July 2017. ^ "Chinese-language Wikipedia presents different view of history" by Howard W. French, The New York Times, Published: 29 November 2006. ^ "Is Wikipedia China Really Wikipedia?" Archived 6 January 2007 at the Wayback Machine Posted by Brian Montopoli at 11:45 AM, 30 November 2006 ^ ?????????? (in Chinese) ^ ???????????????? (on the Chinese Wikipedia) ^ a b "Archived copy" ????????????? ????? ??????????. Ming Pao (in Chinese). Hong Kong. 23 April 2010. Archived from the original on 14 January 2014. Retrieved 15 May 2013.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link) ^ a b c d e "Archived copy" ?????????????? ??????. Ming Pao (in Chinese). Hong Kong. 25 April 2010. Archived from the original on 14 January 2014. Retrieved 15 May 2013.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link) ^ Christopher Arup, William van Caenegem (January 2009). Intellectual Property Policy Reform: Fostering Innovation and Development. Edward Elgar Publishing. ISBN 9781848449039. Archived from the original on 2 December 2018. Retrieved 2 December 2018. ^ Nystedt, Dan (6 August 2007). "Baidu May Be Worst Wikipedia Copyright Violator". Archived from the original on 5 June 2011. Retrieved 5 June 2011. ^ Chao, Loretta (29 March 2011). "Baidu Takes Authors' Fire". The Wall Street Journal. Archived from the original on 2 November 2017. Retrieved 3 August 2017. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Chinese Wikipedia. (in Chinese) Chinese Wikipedia (in Chinese) Chinese Wikipedia mobile version Chinese Wikimedia Conference 2006 Liao, Tan-Heng. "Wikipedia in mainland China: the critical years of 2005-2008." ’Oxford Internet Suite'’'. Oxford University. Woo, Eva. "China, Wikipedia, and Censorship's Perils." BusinessWeek. 20 October 2007. v t e List of Wikipedias by article count 6,000,000+ English 5,000,000+ Cebuano 3,000,000+ Swedish 2,000,000+ German French Dutch 1,000,000+ Russian Italian Spanish Polish Waray Vietnamese Japanese Chinese Arabic Portuguese Ukrainian 500,000+ Persian Catalan Serbian Norwegian (bokmål/riksmål) Indonesian 200,000+ Korean Finnish Hungarian Serbo-Croatian Czech Romanian Basque Turkish Malay Esperanto Armenian Bulgarian Hebrew Danish Chechen Southern Min Slovak Kazakh Minangkabau Croatian Estonian 100,000+ Lithuanian Belarusian Greek Southern Azerbaijani Slovene Galician Azerbaijani Simple English Norwegian (nynorsk) Urdu Hindi Thai Georgian Uzbek Latin Tamil Volapük Egyptian Arabic Welsh Macedonian Tajik Latvian Asturian 50,000+ Malagasy Occitan Tagalog Tatar Afrikaans Kyrgyz Bosnian Albanian Newar Cantonese Telugu Bengali Belarusian (Taraškievica) Breton Piedmontese Malayalam Javanese Luxembourgish Haitian Scots Marathi Swahili Irish Low Saxon Bashkir Silesian 20,000+ Western Punjabi Icelandic Chuvash West Frisian Sundanese Burmese Lombard Aragonese Yoruba Nepali Punjabi Gujarati Ido Bavarian Sicilian Bishnupriya Manipuri Alemannic Kurdish (Kurmanji) Kannada Kurdish (Sorani) Venetian Interlingua Quechua 10,000+ Acehnese Amharic Buginese Classical Chinese Eastern Min Faroese Mongolian Neapolitan Samogitian Scottish Gaelic Sinhalese Walloon Odia Yiddish Banyumasan Upper Sorbian Mazandarani Maithili Megrelian Limburgish Wu Sakha Sanskrit Ilokano Ossetian Hill Mari Emilian-Romagnol Sindhi Meadow Mari Pashto Zazaki Hakka Navajo Central Bicolano North Frisian 5,000+ Fiji Hindi Tarantino Kapampangan Northern Sotho Northern Sami Maori Shan Nahuatl Dutch Low Saxon Rusyn Khmer Bihari West Flemish Gan Crimean Tatar Tibetan Sardinian Vepsian Somali Gilaki Corsican Turkmen Võro Northern Luri Komi Erzya Kashubian 2,000+ Abkhazian Assamese Aymara Balinese Interlingue Manx Norman Saterland Frisian Udmurt Uyghur Zeelandic Lezgian Shona Cornish Ladino Picard Mirandese Konkani Romansh Guarani Komi-Permyak Ligurian Maltese Gorontalo Friulian Lower Sorbian Franco-Provençal Lingala Anglo-Saxon Divehi Chavacano Extremaduran Doteli Lao Kabyle Ripuarian Gagauz Lingua Franca Nova Hawaiian Livvi-Karelian Pangasinan Pali Avar Buryat Palatinate German Kalmyk Karachay-Balkar Banjar Hausa Santali 1,000+ Tulu Papiamentu Karakalpak Zhuang Pennsylvania German Kinyarwanda Tongan Novial Greenlandic Aramaic Jamaican Kabardian Tuvan Tok Pisin Tetum Kabiye Kikuyu Nauruan Igbo Bislama Aromanian Lak Lojban Tahitian Moksha Kongo Luganda Wolof Sranan Zulu 500+ Cherokee Latgalian Samoan Ingush Oromo Xhosa Norfolk Romani Old Church Slavonic Bambara Tswana Kirundi Cheyenne Twi Atikamekw Tumbuka Tsonga Sesotho Gothic Akan 200+ Chamorro Pontic Swati Fijian Adyghe Inuktitut Chichewa Ewe Kashmiri Inupiak Venda Sango Fula Dzongkha 100+ Tigrinya Cree 10+ Dinka 0+ Ndonga Choctaw Kuanyama Marshallese Hiri Motu Sichuan Yi Afar Muscogee Herero Kanuri Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Chinese_Wikipedia&oldid=944214034" Categories: Internet properties established in 2001 Wikipedias by language Chinese online encyclopedias Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with Chinese-language sources (zh) CS1 maint: archived copy as title CS1 uses Chinese-language script (zh) CS1 Chinese-language sources (zh) Use dmy dates from January 2020 Articles with short description Articles with obsolete information from March 2013 All Wikipedia articles in need of updating Articles needing additional references from September 2008 All articles needing additional references Articles that may contain original research from December 2013 All articles that may contain original research Articles with multiple maintenance issues Articles to be expanded from August 2012 All articles to be expanded Articles needing translation from Chinese Wikipedia Pages using deprecated image syntax Articles containing Chinese-language text Articles containing traditional Chinese-language text Articles containing simplified Chinese-language text All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from October 2012 Articles with unsourced statements from October 2013 Articles with unsourced statements from July 2015 Articles with unsourced statements from March 2012 Wikipedia articles with style issues from June 2017 All articles with style issues Articles with unsourced statements from June 2017 Commons category link from Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Meta-Wiki Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans ??????? ??????? Asturianu Az?rbaycanca ????? Bân-lâm-gú ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)? ????????? Català ??????? ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français Gaeilge Galego ??? ??????? ?????? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? ??????? ??????? Kiswahili ???? ?????? Latviešu ?????????? ?????? ????????? ???? Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? ??????? Occitan ?????? Polski Português Român? ??????? Simple English ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska Tagalog ????? ???????/tatarça ?????? ??? ?????? Türkçe ?????????? ???? Vepsän kel’ Ti?ng Vi?t Volapük ?? ?? ?? Zazaki ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 6 March 2020, at 12:34 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
