Citizen journalism - Wikipedia Citizen journalism From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Wikimania 2007 Citizen Journalism Unconference Not to be confused with Civic journalism. This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) The examples and perspective in this article deal primarily with the United States and do not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (September 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article's tone or style may not reflect the encyclopedic tone used on Wikipedia. See Wikipedia's guide to writing better articles for suggestions. (June 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Citizen journalism" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (March 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Journalism News Writing style Ethics code of ethics Objectivity News values Attribution Defamation Sensationalism Editorial independence Journalism school Index of journalism articles Areas Arts Business Data Entertainment Environment Fashion Medicine Music Politics Science Sports Technology Trade Traffic Weather World Genres Advocacy Analytic Blogging Broadcast Citizen Civic Collaborative Comics-based Community Data Database Fact-checking Gonzo Immersion Interpretive Investigative Muckraking Narrative New Journalism Non-profit Online Opinion Peace Photojournalism Scientific Sensor Underground Visual Watchdog Social impact Fake news Fourth Estate Fifth Estate Freedom of the press Infotainment Media bias Public relations Press service Propaganda model Yellow journalism News media Newspapers Magazines TV and radio Internet News agencies Alternative media Roles Journalists (reporters) Columnist Blogger Editor Copy editor Meteorologist News presenter Photographer Pundit / commentator Journalism portal Category: Journalism v t e Citizen journalism (also known as public journalism, participatory journalism, democratic journalism,[1] guerrilla journalism[2] or street journalism[3]) is based upon public citizens "playing an active role in the process of collecting, reporting, analyzing, and disseminating news and information."[4] Similarly, Courtney C. Radsch defines citizen journalism "as an alternative and activist form of news gathering and reporting that functions outside mainstream media institutions, often as a response to shortcomings in the professional journalistic field, that uses similar journalistic practices but is driven by different objectives and ideals and relies on alternative sources of legitimacy than traditional or mainstream journalism".[5] Jay Rosen proposes a simpler definition: "When the people formerly known as the audience employ the press tools they have in their possession to inform one another."[6] Citizen journalism should not be confused with community journalism or civic journalism, both of which are practiced by professional journalists, collaborative journalism which is the practice of professional and non-professional journalists working together,[7] and social journalism that denotes a digital publication with a hybrid of professional and non-professional journalism. Citizen journalism is a specific form of both citizen media and user-generated content (UGC). By juxtaposing the term "citizen", with its attendant qualities of civic-mindedness and social responsibility, with that of "journalism", which refers to a particular profession, Courtney C. Radsch argues that this term best describes this particular form of online and digital journalism conducted by amateurs, because it underscores the link between the practice of journalism and its relation to the political and public sphere.[8] New media technology, such as social networking and media-sharing websites, in addition to the increasing prevalence of cellular telephones, have made citizen journalism more accessible to people worldwide. Recent advances in new media have started to have a profound political impact.[9] Due to the availability of technology, citizens often can report breaking news more quickly than traditional media reporters. Notable examples of citizen journalism reporting from major world events are, the 2010 Haiti earthquake, the Arab Spring, the Occupy Wall Street movement, the 2013 protests in Turkey, the Euromaidan events in Ukraine, and Syrian Civil War and the 2014 Ferguson unrest. Critics of the phenomenon, including professional journalists and news organizations, claim that citizen journalism is unregulated, too subjective, amateur, and haphazard in quality and coverage. Contents 1 Theory 1.1 Theories of Citizenship 2 History 3 Citizen journalists 4 Criticisms 4.1 Objectivity 4.2 Quality 4.3 Effects on traditional journalism 4.4 Legal repercussions 5 Possible future 6 Proponents and facilitators 7 See also 8 References 9 External links Theory[edit] Citizen journalism, as a form of alternative media, presents a "radical challenge to the professionalized and institutionalized practices of the mainstream media".[10] According to Flew, there have been three elements critical to the rise of citizen journalism: open publishing, collaborative editing, and distributed content.[11] Mark Glaser said in 2006:[12] …people without professional journalism training can use the tools of modern technology and the global distribution of the Internet to create, augment or fact-check media on their own or in collaboration with others. In What is Participatory Journalism? (2003),[13] J. D. Lasica classifies media for citizen journalism into the following types: Audience participation (such as user comments attached to news stories, personal blogs, photographs or video footage captured from personal mobile cameras, or local news written by residents of a community) Independent news and information Websites (Consumer Reports, the Drudge Report) Full-fledged participatory news sites (one:convo, NowPublic, OhmyNews, DigitalJournal.com, GroundReport, 'Fair Observer') Collaborative and contributory media sites (Slashdot, Kuro5hin, Newsvine) Other kinds of "thin media" (mailing lists, email newsletters) Personal broadcasting sites (video broadcast sites such as KenRadio) The literature of citizen, alternative, and participatory journalism is most often situated in a democratic context and theorized as a response to corporate news media dominated by an economic logic. Some scholars have sought to extend the study of citizen journalism beyond the developed Western world, including Sylvia Moretzsohn,[14] Courtney C. Radsch,[15] and Clemencia Rodríguez.[16] Radsch, for example, wrote that "Throughout the Arab world, citizen journalists have emerged as the vanguard of new social movements dedicated to promoting human rights and democratic values."[17] Theories of Citizenship[edit] According to Vincent Campbell, theories of citizenship can be categorized into two core groups: those that consider journalism for citizenship, and those that consider journalism as citizenship. The classical model of citizenship is the base of the two theories of citizenship. The classical model is rooted in the ideology of informed citizens and places emphasis on the role of journalists rather than on citizens. The classical model has four main characteristics: journalists' role of informing citizens citizens are assumed to be informed if they regularly attend to the news they are supplied with more informed citizens are more likely to participate the more informed citizens participate, the more democratic a state is more likely to be.[18] The first characteristic upholds the theory that journalism is for citizens. One of the main issues with this is that there is a normative judgement surrounding the amount and nature of information that citizens should have as well as what the relationship between the two should be. One branch of journalism for citizens is the "monitorial citizen" (coined by Michael Schudson). The "monitorial citizen" suggests that citizens appropriately and strategically select what news and information they consume. The "monitorial citizen" along with other forms of this ideology conceive individuals as those who do things with information to enact change and citizenship. However, this production of information does not equal to an act of citizenship, but instead an act of journalism. Therefore, citizens and journalists are portrayed as distinctive roles whereas journalism is used by citizens for citizenship and conversely, journalists serve citizens.[18] The second theory considers journalism as citizenship. This theory focuses on the different aspects of citizen identity and activity and understands citizen journalism as directly constituting citizenship. The term "liquid citizenship" (coined by Zizi Papacharissi) depicts how the lifestyles that individuals engage in allow them to interact with other individuals and organizations, which thus remaps the conceptual periphery of civic, political, and social. This "liquid citizenship" allows the interactions and experiences that individuals face to become citizen journalism where they create their own forms of journalism. An alternative approach of journalism as citizenship rests between the distinction between "dutiful" citizens and "actualizing" citizens. "Dutiful" citizens engage in traditional citizenship practices, while "actualizing" citizens engage in non-traditional citizenship practices. This alternative approach suggests that "actualizing" citizens are less likely to use traditional media and more likely to use online and social media as sources of information, discussion, and participation. Thus, journalism in the form of online and social media practices become a form of citizenship for actualizing citizens.[18] Criticisms have been made against citizen journalism, especially from among professionals in the field. Citizen journalists are often portrayed as unreliable, biased and untrained – as opposed to professionals who have "recognition, paid work, unionized labour and behaviour that is often politically neutral and unaffiliated, at least in the claim if not in the actuality".[19] History[edit] The idea that every citizen can engage in acts of journalism has a long history in the United States. The contemporary citizen journalist movement emerged after journalists began to question the predictability of their coverage of events such as the 1988 U.S. presidential election. Those journalists became part of the public, or civic, journalism movement, which sought to counter the erosion of trust in the news media and the widespread disillusionment with politics and civic affairs.[20][21][22] Initially, discussions of public journalism focused on promoting journalism that was "for the people" by changing the way professional reporters did their work. According to Leonard Witt, however, early public journalism efforts were "often part of 'special projects' that were expensive, time-consuming, and episodic. Too often these projects dealt with an issue and moved on. Professional journalists were driving the discussion. They would have the goal of doing a story on welfare-to-work (or the environment, or traffic problems, or the economy), and then they would recruit a cross-section of citizens and chronicle their points of view. Since not all reporters and editors bought into this form of public journalism, and some outright opposed it, reaching out to the people from the newsroom was never an easy task." By 2003, in fact, the movement seemed to be petering out, with the Pew Center for Civic Journalism closing its doors. Traditionally, the term "citizen journalism" has had a history of struggle with deliberating on a concise and mutually agreed upon definition. Even today, the term lacks a clear form of conceptualization. Although the term lacks conceptualization, alternative names of the term are unable to comprehensively capture the phenomenon. For example, one of the interchangeable names with "citizen journalism" is "user-generated content" (UGC). However, the issue with this alternative term is that it eliminates the potential civic virtues of citizen journalism and considers it to be stunted and proprietorial.[23] With today's technology the citizen journalist movement has found new life as the average person can capture news and distribute it globally. As Yochai Benkler has noted, "the capacity to make meaning – to encode and decode humanly meaningful statements – and the capacity to communicate one's meaning around the world, are held by, or readily available to, at least many hundreds of millions of users around the globe."[24] Professor Mary-Rose Papandrea, a constitutional law professor at Boston College, notes in her article, Citizen Journalism and the Reporter's Privilege, that:[25] [i]n many ways, the definition of "journalist" has now come full circle. When the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution was adopted, "freedom of the press" referred quite literally to the freedom to publish using a printing press, rather than the freedom of organized entities engaged in the publishing business. … It was not until the late nineteenth century that the concept of the "press" metamorphized into a description of individuals and companies engaged in an often-competitive commercial media enterprise. A recent[when?] trend in citizen journalism has been the emergence of what blogger Jeff Jarvis terms hyperlocal journalism, as online news sites invite contributions from local residents of their subscription areas, who often report on topics that conventional newspapers tend to ignore.[26] "We are the traditional journalism model turned upside down," explains Mary Lou Fulton, the publisher of the Northwest Voice in Bakersfield, California. "Instead of being the gatekeeper, telling people that what's important to them 'isn't news', we're just opening up the gates and letting people come on in. We are a better community newspaper for having thousands of readers who serve as the eyes and ears for the Voice, rather than having everything filtered through the views of a small group of reporters and editors."[27] Citizen journalists[edit] According to Jay Rosen, citizen journalists are "the people formerly known as the audience," who "were on the receiving end of a media system that ran one way, in a broadcasting pattern, with high entry fees and a few firms competing to speak very loudly while the rest of the population listened in isolation from one another— and who today are not in a situation like that at all. ... The people formerly known as the audience are simply the public made realer, less fictional, more able, less predictable."[28] Abraham Zapruder, who filmed the assassination of President John Fitzgerald Kennedy with a home-movie camera, is sometimes presented as an ancestor to citizen journalists.[29] Egyptian citizen Wael Abbas was awarded several international reporting prizes for his blog Misr Digital (Digital Egypt) and a video he publicized of two policemen beating a bus driver helped lead to their conviction.[30] During 9/11 many eyewitness accounts of the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center came from citizen journalists. Images and stories from citizen journalists close to the World Trade Center offered content that played a major role in the story.[31][32] In 2004, when the 9.1-magnitude underwater earthquake caused a huge tsunami in Banda Aceh Indonesia and across the Indian Ocean, a weblog-based virtual network of previously unrelated bloggers emerged that covered the news in real-time, and became a vital source for the traditional media for the first week after the tsunami.[33] A large amount of news footage from many people who experienced the tsunami was widely broadcast,[34] as well as a good deal of "on the scene" citizen reporting and blogger analysis that was subsequently picked up by the major media outlets worldwide.[33] Subsequent to the citizen journalism coverage of the disaster and aftermath, researchers have suggested that citizen journalists may, in fact, play a critical role in the disaster warning system itself, potentially with higher reliability than the networks of tsunami warning equipment based on technology alone which then require interpretation by disinterested third parties.[35] The microblog Twitter played an important role during the 2009 Iranian election protests, after foreign journalists had effectively been "barred from reporting". Twitter delayed scheduled maintenance during the protests that would have shut down coverage in Iran due to the role it played in public communication.[36] Social media platforms such as blogs, YouTube, and Twitter encourage and facilitate engagement with other citizens who participate in creating content through commenting, liking, linking, and sharing. The majority of the content produced by these amateur news bloggers was not original content, but curated information monitored and edited by these various bloggers. There has been a decline in the amateur news blogger due to social media platforms that are much easier to run and maintain, allowing individuals to easily share and create and content.[23] Wikimedia Foundation hosts a participatory journalism web site, Wikinews.[37] The website allows contributors to write news which undergo a peer review prior to publications in some language editions (English, German, Russian) but not in others (Norwegian). Criticisms[edit] Objectivity[edit] Citizen journalists also may be activists within the communities they write about. This has drawn some criticism from traditional media institutions such as The New York Times, which have accused proponents of public journalism of abandoning the traditional goal of objectivity. Many traditional journalists view citizen journalism with some skepticism, believing that only trained journalists can understand the exactitude and ethics involved in reporting news. See, e.g., Nicholas Lemann, Vincent Maher, and Tom Grubisich. An academic paper by Vincent Maher, the head of the New Media Lab at Rhodes University, outlined several weaknesses in the claims made by citizen journalists, in terms of the "three deadly E's", referring to ethics, economics, and epistemology.[38] An analysis by language and linguistics professor, Patricia Bou-Franch, found that some citizen journalists resorted to abuse-sustaining discourses naturalizing violence against women. She found that these discourses were then challenged by others who questioned the gendered ideologies of male violence against women.[39] Quality[edit] An article in 2005 by Tom Grubisich reviewed ten new citizen journalism sites and found many of them lacking in quality and content.[40] Grubisich followed up a year later with, "Potemkin Village Redux."[41] He found that the best sites had improved editorially and were even nearing profitability, but only by not expensing editorial costs. Also according to the article, the sites with the weakest editorial content were able to expand aggressively because they had stronger financial resources. Another article published on Pressthink examined Backfence, a citizen journalism site with three initial locations in the D.C. area, which reveals that the site has only attracted limited citizen contributions.[42] The author concludes that, "in fact, clicking through Backfence's pages feels like frontier land -– remote, often lonely, zoned for people but not home to any. The site recently launched for Arlington, Virginia. However, without more settlers, Backfence may wind up creating more ghost towns." David Simon, a former Baltimore Sun reporter and writer-producer of the television series The Wire criticized the concept of citizen journalism—claiming that unpaid bloggers who write as a hobby cannot replace trained, professional, seasoned journalists. "I am offended to think that anyone, anywhere believes American institutions as insulated, self-preserving and self-justifying as police departments, school systems, legislatures and chief executives can be held to gathered facts by amateurs pursuing the task without compensation, training or for that matter, sufficient standing to make public officials even care to whom it is they are lying to." An editorial published by The Digital Journalist web magazine expressed a similar position, advocating to abolish the term "citizen journalist", and replacing it with "citizen news gatherer". "Professional journalists cover fires, floods, crime, the legislature, and the White House every day. There is either a fire line or police line, or security, or the Secret Service who allow them to pass upon displaying credentials vetted by the departments or agencies concerned. A citizen journalist, an amateur, will always be on the outside of those lines. Imagine the White House throwing open its gates to admit everybody with a camera phone to a presidential event."[43] While the fact that citizen journalists can report in real time and are not subject to oversight opens them to criticism about the accuracy of their reporting, news stories presented by mainstream media also misreport facts occasionally that are reported correctly by citizen journalists. As low as 32% of the American population have a fair amount of trust in the media.[44] Effects on traditional journalism[edit] Journalism has been affected significantly due to citizen journalism. This is because citizen journalism allows people to post as much content as they want, whenever they want. In order to stay competitive, traditional news sources are forcing their journalist to compete. This means that journalist now have to write, edit and add pictures into their content and they must do so at a rapid pace, as it is perceived by news companies that it's essential for journalist to produce content at the same rate that citizens can post content on the internet. This is hard though, as many news companies are facing budget cuts and cannot afford to pay journalists the proper amount for the amount of work they do. Despite the uncertainties of a job in journalism and rising tuition costs there has been a 35% increase in journalism majors throughout the past few years according to Astra Taylor in her book The People's Platform.[45] Legal repercussions[edit] Edward Greenberg, a New York City litigator,[46] notes higher vulnerability of unprofessional journalists in court compared to the professional ones: "So-called shield laws, which protect reporters from revealing sources, vary from state to state. On occasion, the protection is dependent on whether the person [who] asserted the claim is in fact a journalist. There are many cases at both the state and federal levels where judges determine just who is/is not a journalist. Cases involving libel often hinge on whether the actor was or was not a member of the "press"."[43] The view stated above does not mean that professional journalists are fully protected by shield laws. In the 1972 Branzburg v. Hayes case the Supreme Court of the United States invalidated the use of the First Amendment as a defense for reporters summoned to testify before a grand jury. In 2005, the reporter's privilege of Judith Miller and Matthew Cooper was rejected by the appellate court. Possible future[edit] Citizen journalism increased during the last decade of the twentieth century and into the twenty-first century, associated with the creation of the internet which introduced new ways in communicating and engaging news. Due to this shift in technology, individuals were able to access more news than previously and at a much faster rate. This larger quantity also made it so there was a larger variety of sources which people were able to consume media and news. Natalie Fenton[47] discusses the role of citizen journalism within the digital age and has three characteristics associated with the topic: speed and space, multiplicity and poly-centrality, and interactivity and participation. With technological advancements, individuals were able to participate increasingly in journalism. Pictures or videos could be uploaded online in a matter of minutes and this paved the way for social media to grow as a strong producer in the industry. The introduction of technologies such as the smartphone increased the ability to access the internet. Many large corporations have shifted their focus toward online presence, such as Facebook or YouTube. New technologies such as virtual reality may open new avenues that media companies and individuals alike will be able to exploit for journalism. Proponents and facilitators[edit] This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Citizen journalism" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (April 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Dan Gillmor, the former technology columnist for the San Jose Mercury News, founded a nonprofit, the Center for Citizen Media,[48] (2005–2009) to help promote it. Professor Charles Nesson, William F. Weld Professor of Law at Harvard Law School and the founder of the Berkman Center for Internet & Society, chairs the Advisory Board for Jamaican citizen journalism startup On the Ground News Reports.[49] In March 2014, blogger and survivalist author James Wesley Rawles launched a web site that provides free press credentials for citizen journalists called the Constitution First Amendment Press Association (CFAPA).[50][51] According to David Sheets of the Society for Professional Journalists, Rawles keeps no records on who gets these credentials.[50] Maurice Ali founded one of the first international citizen journalist associations, the International Association of Independent Journalists Inc. (IAIJ), in 2003. The association through its President (Maurice Ali) published studies and articles on citizen journalism, attended and spoken at UNESCO[52] and United Nations events[53][54] as advocates of citizen journalism worldwide. See also[edit] Journalism portal Cherry picking Citizen Kate Collaborative journalism Conjecture Crowdsourcing Democratic journalism Demotix Fake news Filemobile Global Voices Online Independent Media Center JPG (magazine) List of journalists killed in Syria Media democracy Meporter OhmyNews On the Ground News Reports Open-source journalism Raqqa Is Being Slaughtered Silently Social news South East Europe Media Organisation Wiki journalism Youth Ki Awaaz References[edit] ^ Baase, Sara (2008). A Gift of Fire: Social, Legal, and Ethical Issues for Computing and the Internet (3rd ed.). Prentice Hall. ISBN 9780136008484. ^ Case, J. A. "Recovering the Radical: Biocybernetic Subversion in Guerrilla Video Primer." Paper presented at the NCA 93rd Annual Convention, Chicago, IL, November 14, 2007. ^ Tamara Witschge (March 27, 2009). "Street journalists versus 'ailing journalists'?". openDemocracy – free thinking for the world. openDemocracy Ltd. Archived from the original on August 30, 2009. Retrieved May 21, 2012. ^ Bowman, S. and Willis, C. "We Media: How Audiences are Shaping the Future of News and Information." 2003, The Media Center at the American Press Institute. ^ Radsch, Courtney C. The Revolutions will be Blogged: Cyberactivism and the 4th Estate in Egypt. Doctoral Dissertation, American University, 2013. ^ Jay Rosen (July 14, 2008). "A Most Useful Definition of Citizen Journalism". PressThink. Retrieved May 21, 2012. ^ Novin, A., Secko, D. (November 25, 2012). "Debate Cited: A First Exploration of a Web Application to Enhance the Production of Science Journalism Students". Journalism Interest Group, CCA/Groupe d'Intérêt en Journalisme, ACC Conference Proceedings. 2012. Retrieved September 8, 2016. ^ Deutsch Karlekar, Karin; Radsch, Courtney C. (July 1, 2012). "Adapting Concepts of Media Freedom to a Changing Media Environment: Incorporating New Media and Citizen Journalism into the Freedom of the Press Index". ESSACHESS Journal for Communication Studies. 5 (1, 2012) – via SSRN. ^ Gilardi, F. (2016). Digital Democracy. How Digital Democracy is Changing Democracy And Its Study., 1-5. ^ Atton, Chris. 2003. What is "alternative journalism"? Journalism: Theory, Practice and Criticism 4, no. 3: 267-400. ^ Flew, Terry. 2005. New media: An introduction. South Melbourne, Vic. ; New York: Oxford University Press. ^ Mark Glaser (September 27, 2006). "Your Guide to Citizen Journalism". Public Broadcasting Service. Retrieved March 22, 2009. ^ Lasica, J. D. "What is Participatory Journalism?" 2003-08-07, Online Journalism Review, August 7, 2003. ^ Moretzsohn, S. 2006. " Citizen journalism" and the myth of redemptive technology. Brazilian Journalism Research 2, no. 2. ^ Radsch, C. (2011). Arab bloggers as citizen journalists (Transnational). In J. Downing (Ed.), Encyclopedia of social movement media. (pp. 62–65). Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publications, Inc. doi: 10.4135/9781412979313.n31 ^ Rodríguez, Clemencia. 2001. Fissures in the mediascape : An international study of citizens' media. The Hampton Press Communication Series. Cresskill, N.J.: Hampton Press. ^ Radsch, C. (2011). Arab bloggers as citizen journalists (Transnational). In J. Downing (Ed.), Encyclopedia of social movement media. (pp. 62–65). Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publications, Inc. P. 61 ^ a b c Campbell, Vincent (2015). "Theorizing Citizenship in Citizen Journalism". Digital Journalism. 3 (5): 704–719. doi:10.1080/21670811.2014.937150. ^ Allan, edited by Stuart; Thorsen, Einar (2009). Citizen journalism : global perspectives (2009 ed.). New York: Peter Lang. p. 121. ISBN 9781433102950.CS1 maint: extra text: authors list (link) ^ Merritt, D. "News Media must regain vigor, courage." September 29, 2004, PJNet Today. ^ Dvorkin, J. A. "Media Matters. Can Public Radio Journalism be Re-Invented?" January 27, 2005, National Public Radio. ^ Meyer, E. P. "Public Journalism and the Problem of Objectivity." 1995, Published on personal website. ^ a b Wall, Melissa (2015). "Citizen Journalism". Digital Journalism. 3 (6): 797–813. doi:10.1080/21670811.2014.1002513. ^ "Part One: The Networked Information Economy". Archived from the original on September 27, 2007. Retrieved January 5, 2007. ^ Papandrea, Mary-Rose. "Citizen Journalism and the Reporter's Privilege." Boston College Law School (Minnesota Law Review, Vol. 91). 2007. Retrieved January 7, 2007. ^ Walker, L. "On Local Sites, Everyone's A Journalist, December 9, 2004, The Washington Post, E1. ^ Glaser, M. "The New Voices: Hyperlocal Citizen Media Sites Want You (to Write)!" November 17, 2004, Online Journalism Review. ^ Rosen, Jay "The People Formerly Known as the Audience Archived July 21, 2006, at the Wayback Machine," PressThink, June 27, 2006. ^ COSTEMALLE, Olivier (August 21, 2007). "La mort de JFK dans le viseur de Zapruder" [The death of JFK in Zapruder's viewfinder] (in French). Ecrans.fr. Retrieved December 19, 2013. ^ Kjellman, Krista (November 6, 2007). "Cell Phone Justice; Torture Video Leads to Police Convictions – ABC News". Abcnews.go.com. Retrieved June 5, 2013. ^ jameselliott92 (November 1, 2013). "Citizen Journalism – 9/11 Case Study". ^ "MetaFilter and Citizen Journalism in the 9/11 Attacks". ucsddigitaljournalism.blogspot.com. UC San Diego students. May 26, 2012. Retrieved September 13, 2014. ^ a b Dameron, Kirk (June 2007). Self-Organizing Social Behavior Occasioned By Low-Cost Communication Technology: The Indian Ocean Tsunami of 2004 (Master of Arts thesis). Colorado State University. SSRN 1004415. Recent advances in information and communication technology have facilitated revolutionary change in the publishing technology available to individuals. Ubiquitous and low-cost access to the Internet has provided a means for a new type of news intermediary to emerge: citizen journalism using freely available weblog technology. A case study of the emergence of a self-organizing social entity – a dynamic virtual news network – following the 2004 South Asian tsunami is examined. ^ Glocer, Tim (March 7, 2006). "Old media must embrace the amateur". Financial Times. Retrieved March 8, 2013. ^ Grabowski, Martha; Karlene Roberts (December 2011). "High reliability virtual organizations: Co-adaptive technology and organizational structures in tsunami warning systems". ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction. 18 (4). Retrieved March 8, 2013. Systems that combine the characteristics of highly reliable operations and distributed, virtual organizations are known as highly reliable virtual organizations (HRVOs)—distributed and electronically linked groups of organizations that excel in high-consequence settings. Tsunami warning systems (TWS) are one example of virtual organizations that operate under enormous expectations for reliability. Adaptive structuration theory suggests that, in complex systems, technology and organizational structures co-evolve, and users adapt technology to their needs, creating shared meaning about the role and utility of technology in various settings. ^ Washington Taps Into a Potent New Force in Diplomacy The New York Times June 16, 2009 ^ "Our projects". Wikimedia Foundation. March 17, 2018. ^ Maher, V. "Citizen Journalism is Dead." 2005, New Media Lab, School of Journalism & Media Studies, Rhodes University, South Africa. ^ Bou-Franch, Patricia (2013). "Domestic violence and public participation in the media: The case of citizen journalism". Gender and Language. 7 (3): 275–302. doi:10.1558/genl.v7i3.275. ^ Grubisich, T. "Grassroots journalism: Actual content vs. shining ideal." October 6, 2005, USC Annenberg, Online Journalism Review. ^ Grubisich, T. "Potemkin Village Redux." November 19, 2006, USC Annenberg, Online Journalism Review. ^ George, E. "Guest Writer Liz George of Baristanet Reviews Backfence.com Seven Months After Launch. Archived December 4, 2005, at the Wayback Machine" November 30, 2005, Pressthink. ^ a b "Let's abolish the term 'Citizen Journalists'". December 2009. Retrieved August 17, 2010. ^ Inc, Gallup. "Americans' Trust in Mass Media Sinks to New Low". Gallup.com. Retrieved September 15, 2016. ^ Taylor, Astra (2014). The People's Platform: Taking Back Power and Culture in the Digital Age. New York, New York: Picador Paperback. ^ Edward Greenberg (December 20, 2009). "About Ed". Retrieved August 17, 2010. ^ "ProQuest Ebook Central". site.ebrary.com. Retrieved October 29, 2017. ^ "Center for Citizen Media". Center for Citizen Media Blog. Retrieved June 5, 2013. ^ "On the Ground News Reports (OGNR) the Citizen Powered News Network officially launched at Kingston BETA". Retrieved September 15, 2013. ^ a b "Survivalist starts issuing his own press passes – A Society of Professional Journalists Blog". Net Worked. May 23, 2014. ^ "Constitution First Amendment Press Association (CFAPA) Free Press Credentials (Free Press Pass) – An Independent Press Association". ^ "'Citizen Journalism'" (PDF). UNESCO. February 27, 2013. Retrieved August 2, 2011. ^ "'WSIS+10 United Nations General Assembly High-Level Meeting'". United Nations. July 2, 2015. Retrieved August 2, 2016. ^ "'Maurice Ali Speech: International Association of Independent Journalists Inc. WSIS+10-United Nations-July 2, 2015'" (PDF). United Nations. July 2, 2015. Retrieved August 2, 2016. External links[edit] Citizen journalismat Wikipedia's sister projects Definitions from Wiktionary Media from Wikimedia Commons News from Wikinews Textbooks from Wikibooks Resources from Wikiversity South East Europe Media Organisation (SEEMO), an affiliate of the International Press Institute (IPI) List of Participatory News Media sites at Curlie. v t e Citizen journalism News outlets Active AgoraVox Bellingcat BrooWaha Come4news Global Voices Independent Media Center LiveLeak Mosul Eye OhmyNews Raqqa Is Being Slaughtered Silently Rassd News Network Undercurrents Unicorn Riot The UpTake Vivahiba Defunct Blottr Generación invisible GroundReport MaYoMo Orato SchNEWS Citizen journalists Hadi Al Abdullah (1987–) Basil al-Sayed (1987–2011) Atiaf Alwazir Danny Abdul Dayem Ruqia Hassan (c. 1985–2015) Eliot Higgins (1979–) Usamah Mohamad Ali Mahmoud Othman (1978–) James Edwin Richards (c. 1945–2000) Nguy?n V?n Hoá (1995–) Marc Wadsworth Zhou Shuguang Collaborative journalism Cyber-dissident Digital journalism Open-source journalism Wiki journalism v t e Journalism Roles Journalist Reporter Editor Columnist Copy editor Meteorologist News presenter Photographer Political commentator Blogger Profession News News writing style Ethics code of ethics Objectivity Values Attribution Defamation Editorial independence Journalism school Areas Arts Business Data-driven Entertainment Environment Fashion Global Medicine Politics Science Sports Technical Trade Traffic Video games Weather World Genres Access Advocacy Analytic Blogging Broadcast Churnalism Citizen Civic Collaborative Community Data Database Embedded Gonzo Immersion Interpretive Investigative Literary Muckraking Narrative New Journalism Non-profit journalism Online Opinion Peace Photojournalism Scientific Visual Watchdog Social impact Fake news Fourth Estate Freedom of the press Hostile media effect Infotainment Media bias Public relations Yellow journalism News media Newspapers Magazines TV and radio Internet News agencies Alternative media List of journalism articles v t e Web syndication History Blogging Podcasting Vlogging Web syndication technology Types Art Bloggernacle Classical music Corporate Dream diary Edublog Electronic journal Fake Family Fashion Food Health Law Lifelog Litblog MP3 News Photoblog Police Political Prayer Project Reverse Travel Warblog Technology General BitTorrent Feed URI scheme Features Linkback Permalink Ping Pingback Reblogging Refback Rollback Trackback Mechanism Conversation threading Geotagging RSS enclosure Synchronization Memetics Atom feed Data feed Photofeed Product feed RDF feed Web feed RSS GeoRSS MRSS RSS TV Social Inter-process communication Livemark Mashup Referencing RSS editor RSS tracking Streaming media Standard OML OPML RSS Advisory Board Usenet World Wide Web XBEL XOXO Form Audio podcast Enhanced podcast Mobilecast Narrowcasting Peercasting Screencast Slidecasting Videocast Webcomic Webtoon Web series Anonymous blogging Collaborative blog Columnist Instant messaging Liveblogging Microblog Mobile blogging Roblog Spam blog Video blogging Motovlogging Media Alternative media Carnivals Fiction Journalism Citizen Database Online diary Search engines Sideblog Software Web directory Micromedia Aggregation News Poll Review Search Video Atom AtomPub Broadcatching Hashtag NewsML 1 G2 Social communication Social software Web Slice Related Blogosphere Escribitionist Glossary of blogging Pay per click Posting style Slashdot effect Spam in blogs Uses of podcasting Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Citizen_journalism&oldid=931761797" Categories: Citizen journalism Hidden categories: CS1 maint: extra text: authors list Webarchive template wayback links CS1 French-language sources (fr) Use mdy dates from May 2012 Articles with limited geographic scope from September 2011 USA-centric Wikipedia articles with style issues from June 2009 All articles with style issues Articles needing additional references from March 2018 All articles needing additional references Articles with multiple maintenance issues All articles with vague or ambiguous time Vague or ambiguous time from January 2019 Articles needing additional references from April 2018 Articles with Curlie links Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? Az?rbaycanca Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto ????? Français ??? ??????? Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? ??????? Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål Polski Português Român? ??????? ????? ?????? / srpski Svenska ?????? Türkçe ?????????? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 21 December 2019, at 01:19 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
