CollegeHumor - Wikipedia CollegeHumor From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article is about the comedy website. For the TV series based on the website, see The CollegeHumor Show. For other uses, see College Humor (disambiguation). This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "CollegeHumor" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (May 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) CollegeHumor Type of site Entertainment website Owner Sam Reich (majority), IAC URL collegehumor.com Alexa rank 37,374 (as of September 25, 2019[update])[1] Registration Optional Launched December 7, 1999; 20 years ago (1999-12-07) Current status Active (website defunct as of 2020) CollegeHumor is an internet comedy company based in Los Angeles. Aside from producing content for release on YouTube, it was also a former humor website owned by InterActiveCorp (IAC) until January 2020 when IAC withdrew funding and the website shut down. Since then, CollegeHumor continued to release content on YouTube and on its streaming service, Dropout. The site featured daily original humor videos and articles created by its in-house writing and production team, in addition to user-submitted videos, pictures, articles and links. It was created by Josh Abramson and Ricky Van Veen in 1999.[2] CollegeHumor is operated by Electus Digital, which operates Dorkly.com and Watchloud.com in addition to CollegeHumor.[3] CHMedia is also a partner of the website BustedTees, an online clothing website. Many of its staff also operated the sister website Dorkly, centering on fandoms and video game parodies in the vein of CollegeHumor before the site ceased publication of new articles in January 2019. Like CollegeHumor, despite the website shutting down, Dorkly continues to release content on YouTube, funded by Lowbrow. Contents 1 History 2 Features 2.1 Videos 2.2 Pictures 2.3 Articles 3 CH Originals 3.1 List of series 3.1.1 CH original sketches, animations, and music 3.1.2 Dimension 20 3.1.3 Jake and Amir 3.1.4 Full Benefits 3.1.5 TV RPG 3.1.6 POV 3.1.7 The Six 3.1.8 Prank War 3.1.9 The All-Nighter 3.1.10 Dire Consequences 3.1.11 IRL Files 3.1.12 Very Mary-Kate 3.1.13 Hello, My Name Is... 3.1.14 Troopers 3.1.15 Dinosaur Office 3.1.16 BearShark 3.1.17 Badman 3.1.18 Precious Plum 3.1.19 The Adventures of Kim Jong Un 3.1.20 Furry Force 3.1.21 If Google was a Guy 3.1.22 Hot Date 3.1.23 What the F 101 3.1.24 Um, Actually 3.1.25 Past series 4 Alumni 5 The CollegeHumor Show 6 Books 7 References 8 External links History[edit] The site was created in December 1999 by Josh Abramson and Ricky Van Veen, with help from web developer Jake Lodwick. Abramson and Van Veen were high school friends from Baltimore, Maryland. The site traffic reached approximately 30,000 monthly American users.[4] Abramson said in an interview that they wanted to start "an advertisement-based business because at the time the advertising market was pretty hot and we'd seen other people develop Web sites that were popular making a lot of money." Their aim was to create a humor site that would appeal to the advertiser-friendly college-aged demographic.[5] CollegeHumor, along with its parent company, Connected Ventures, was acquired by Barry Diller's IAC in August 2006.[6] CollegeHumor has become known for its original comedy content. The site has been nominated for the Webby Award in the humor category,[7] and many of their individual videos have been nominated for and/or won Webby Awards. Recent winners include "Pixar Intro Parody" for Best Animation, "Web Site Story" for Best Individual Short or Episode, and Jake and Amir for Best Series. Their shorts "Awkward Rap" and "Hand Vagina" were nominated for the Webby Award for Best Comedy: Individual Short or Episode in 2008 and 2009 with other nominees and winners since. In 2014, CollegeHumor was listed on New Media Rockstars Top 100 Channels, ranked at number 76.[8] On September 26, 2018, CollegeHumor launched Dropout, a subscription service that includes uncensored and original video series, animations, and other forms of media including comics and fictionalized chat conversations.[9][10] On January 23, 2019, CollegeHumor announced on the Dorkly homepage that they would be ceasing the publication of new articles and comics on the Dorkly site in favor of shifting to other platforms for new material, citing increased costs of the website and the decline of ad based revenue for publications such as Dorkly. On January 8, 2020, it was announced that IAC was selling CollegeHumor to its Chief Creative Officer, Sam Reich, resulting in the job loss of nearly all employees and staff.[11] Features[edit] Videos[edit] CollegeHumor produces original comedy videos under the CH Originals (formerly known as CHTV) banner. In addition, the site hosts a large collection of user-submitted viral videos, encompassing home movies, bizarre sports highlights, sketches, and such. These videos are released one month prior to being posted on YouTube. As of November 2019[update], The CollegeHumor YouTube channel has reached over 7.1 billion views, and over 13.5 million subscribers. Pictures[edit] CollegeHumor's pictures section features user-submitted photographs. Like the site's videos, CollegeHumor's pictures are of a humorous or bizarre nature. CollegeHumor also occasionally holds photo-based contests for its users. This feature has since fallen out of use and is no longer updated. Articles[edit] CollegeHumor posts original writing from its staff and users, including humorous essays, comics, interviews and weekly columns on sports, video games, college life, and dating. Contributing writers to the site have included notable comedians Steve Hofstetter, Christian Finnegan, Brooks Wheelan, Paul Scheer, Amir Blumenfeld, Alex Figueroa, Justin Johnson,[12] and Judah Friedlander. Andrew Bridgman curates the articles and edits the website's front page.[13] CH Originals[edit] This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "CollegeHumor" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (October 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) CH Originals is CollegeHumor's original comedy video section, featuring sketches and short films written and produced by the CollegeHumor staff. The site releases over ten new videos per week. CH Originals videos include sketch comedy, film and television parodies, animation, and music videos. In addition to stand-alone viral comedy shorts or "one-offs", which are usually shot on location and feature hired actors, CH Originals also produces a number of series—notably "Hardly Working", "Jake and Amir", and "Nerd Alert"—which are shot in the CH office and star the CH staff members themselves.[14] CollegeHumor's original videos average 20 million views per month on the site. In addition, their videos are collected on the CollegeHumor YouTube Channel, which currently has over 13.5 million subscribers, with over 27,765 new subscribers joining each week.[15] List of series[edit] CH original sketches, animations, and music[edit] One-off comedy sketches, cartoons and music videos written and produced by the in-house staff. Written by Patrick Cassels, Emily Axford, Adam Conover, Mike Trapp, and Brian Murphy (among others), these sketches are designed to be more viral in nature than the site's other comedy content. Dimension 20[edit] A tabletop role-playing game show, with Brennan Lee Mulligan as the GM. The games use Dungeons & Dragons 5e, although each season has taken place in a different campaign setting. Dimension 20 also covers supplementary shows that are talk focused discussion shows about elements of role-playing (Adventure Academy) or specifics about the first season (Dimension 20 Fantasy High Extra Credit). The first season was called Fantasy High, with the setting focused on Elmville an odd anachronistic town resembling a high fantasy John Hughes movie. The second season focused on a parody of Lord of the Rings, with the players (including Matt Mercer from Critical Role and a new set of College Humor staff) playing the archetype lieutenants of the Sauron-like Big Bad Evil Guy. The third season was known as the Unsleeping City, and was a modern day campaign set in a magical version of New York. The fourth season is currently ongoing as of January 2020, and is focused on a set of 'tiny people' i.e., bugs, living toys, etc., and their attempts at crime. Jake and Amir[edit] Main article: Jake and Amir (web series) A series of short sketches about two former CH writers, Jake Hurwitz and Amir Blumenfeld, who often act out the odd couple act. The show depicts Jake as a regular guy constantly annoyed by Amir's idiotic antics, while Amir sincerely just wants to be good friends with Jake. The show's final episode aired in April 2015. Full Benefits[edit] A series of sketches written by and starring Sarah Schneider and David Young about two coworkers and their attempts to keep their relationship hidden. Each episode usually begins with them waking up in the same bed after having one of their numerous one night stands. This series ended when Sarah Schneider left College Humor in November 2011. TV RPG[edit] An animated parody of popular TV series using the likeness of retro-style role-playing games. POV[edit] Sketches shot from the point-of-view of the main character, often voiced by Vincent Peone, CollegeHumor's cinematographer. These sketches are known for realism and relatability (in a humorous manner) and are among CH's most popular videos. In most POV videos the phrase "How is that even possible?" is often used as a running gag. The Six[edit] A set of videos starring Josh Ruben, each of which feature six outrageous scenarios in certain situations, such as getting out of the friend zone or having "monsters" for roommates. The videos are narrated in second-person, using Ruben as an analogy for the viewer. Prank War[edit] A series that documents the escalating pranks that are played between former CH staffers Streeter Seidell and Amir Blumenfeld. Prank War gained national notoriety after Amir staged a fake public marriage proposal from Streeter to his girlfriend Sharon at a New York Yankees game. The incident was known as "The Yankee Prankee" and was later featured on VH1's "40 Greatest Pranks Part 2".[16] Seidell and Blumenfeld have appeared twice on Jimmy Kimmel Live! to discuss their pranks. The All-Nighter[edit] An annual event started in 2007 in which the CH staff shoots and posts 12 videos in one night between 9 pm and 9 am. While doing so, they communicate with fans via Twitter and UStream. Dire Consequences[edit] A Series involving Kevin Corrigan and Brian Murphy, who each bet each other to do a wacky action, such as wearing progressively smaller clothes as a day goes by, or playing paintball solo against a group of US Army soldiers. The person who does these things is usually chosen at the beginning of the episode. IRL Files[edit] Stories about a never-seen narrator who gets involved in wacky situations. Very Mary-Kate[edit] A series that revolves around the life of Mary-Kate Olsen (played by Elaine Carroll), a rich young woman who is heir to Woody Allen, and her sensible bodyguard. Hello, My Name Is...[edit] A series starring Pat Cassels and Josh Ruben. Ruben is placed in prosthetic and make-up by their make-up artist Hannah. From the prosthetic, Ruben spontaneously creates a character which Pat then interviews. Troopers[edit] A series that parodies of sci-fi movies and shows, particularly Star Wars. Shorts mostly focus on a pair of stormtrooper-like soldiers, Larry and Rich, and the humorous problems that arise from working for an evil interstellar empire aboard a small, moon-sized, planet-destroying space station. Features Aubrey Plaza in a guest role. Dinosaur Office[edit] A stop-motion series released via Nintendo Video on the Nintendo 3DS/2DS. The stop-motion shorts focus on Craig the Triceratops and Todd the Apatosaurus as they work at DinoSoft Limited with co-workers Sheila the Stegosaurus, Richard the Diplodocus, various interns, and their boss Terry the Tyrannosaurus. The dinosaurs face typical office problems such as rushing to meet deadlines and trying to decide what to have for lunch while also facing less typical problems such as asteroid warnings on the news, volcano drills, and corporate takeovers. BearShark[edit] A traditionally animated series that features a bear and a shark teaming up to eat a man named Steve, and always succeeding (though Steve always comes back), only for them to slowly develop a friendship with him. This series received its own video game in 2013 on the Nintendo eShop. Badman[edit] A series that parodies the Christopher Nolan Batman films. The shorts involve Batman (played by Pete Holmes), who—unlike in the movies and comics—is portrayed as oblivious and incompetent, much to the annoyance of friends and foes alike. Precious Plum[edit] A series starring Josh Ruben and Very Mary-Kate star Elaine Carroll and written by Carroll and CollegeHumor's president of original content, Sam Reich. It is a parody of Honey Boo Boo. It has replaced Very Mary-Kate in the Thursday release slot of Collegehumor, and Sam Reich has announced that there will be two more episodes over the next two weeks, and more will be made imminently. The Adventures of Kim Jong Un[edit] A cartoon series which is a parody of the Supreme Leader of North Korea and the propaganda of that country. Kim Jong-un is shown to possess various abilities and powers, which he uses to battle enemies of the state, plotting to harm True Korea. His adversaries are generally depicted as weak and foolish individuals. Typically the ending of each episode features a scene in which Kim Jong-un's recently deceased father returns from the dead in some way and violently fights with his son. His enemies are mostly shown as democratic leaders like Obama. He rides on a unicorn that flies on a flying carpet. Furry Force[edit] A cartoon series featuring anthropomorphic superheroes which won the 2014 Ursa Major award for "Best Anthropomorphic Dramatic Short Work or Series".[17] If Google was a Guy[edit] Actor Brian Huskey personifies the search engine Google, who deals with a variety of people who come into his office and tells him what to search. He reacts to the search depending on the person searching and the actual question. Cameos of other website personas include Siri (Alison Becker) WebMD (Roger Anthony), the NSA (Brian Sacca), and Bing (Randall Park). Other notable guest stars include Colton Dunn, D'Arcy Carden, Milana Vayntrub, Jon Gabrus, and Mark McGrath as himself. Hot Date[edit] Brian Murphy and Emily Axford attempt a lovely night out for a romantic meal, but sadly blow their chances by bringing themselves. What the F 101[edit] A cartoon series featuring students learning about biology, history, and other subjects, usually in a gross and/or disturbing manner. The series is streamed on CollegeHumor's Dropout app. Um, Actually[edit] A gameshow hosted by Mike Trapp in which contestants correct statements with the phrase "Um,actually...". The statements are about pop culture. Past series[edit] Previously, CH Originals produced The Michael Showalter Showalter, a Charlie Rose-style comedic interview series hosted by Michael Showalter and featuring guests such as Paul Rudd, Andy Samberg, David Cross, Zach Galifianakis, and Michael Cera. They also gained notoriety for "Street Fighter: The Later Years", which was nominated for "Best Series" by YouTube's Video Awards.[18] In 2011, they featured Bad Dads, a series of five, three-minute shorts starring Michael Cera and Will Hines. The series was written, directed, and produced by Derek Westerman. Also previously produced by College Humor were Bleep Bloop and Nerd Alert. Bleep Bloop was a video-game-based talk show hosted by Jeff Rubin and Patrick Cassels, featuring various guests. Many comedians were featured on the show. Some of the most memorable were Pete Holmes, Jamie Lee, Christian Finnegan, and pro skater Billy Rohan. Nerd alert was a similar show performed in the style of a talk show hosted by Jeff Rubin and Brian Murphy (who is the editor of dorkly.com). They discuss all variety of nerdy matters and end with a surprise guest. Alumni[edit] Many members of the writing and acting staff of CollegeHumor have gone on to larger productions after their time with the website. Jake Hurwitz and Amir Blumenfeld founded the HeadGum podcast network in 2015, which now comprises over 40 different podcasts.[19] Sarah Schneider became a staff writer on Saturday Night Live in 2010, before serving as head writer for the series' 42nd season from 2016–2017.[20][21] She went on to co-create the Comedy Central show The Other Two with writer Chris Kelly.[22][23] Streeter Seidell joined the writing staff at Saturday Night Live and was a writer on the short-lived ABC show Trophy Wife[24] Will Stephen joined the writing staff for Saturday Night Live in 2015[24] Dan Gurewitch became a staff writer on Last Week Tonight with John Oliver[25][26] Patrick Cassels became a staff writer on Full Frontal with Samantha Bee[27] CollegeHumor and Dorkly writer Owen Parsons went on to write for The Daily Show as well as The Opposition with Jordan Klepper, before becoming a staff writer on Last Week Tonight with John Oliver[28] CollegeHumor and Dorkly writer Ben Joseph went on to write for several animated series, including The Simpsons and Wander Over Yonder, as well as the live-action series Me, Myself & I[29] H. Caldwell Tanner, CollegeHumor writer and illustrator, became a Storyboard Artist for Disney Television Animation Adam Conover went on to create the truTV show Adam Ruins Everything, based on the CollegeHumor series of the same name Brian K. Murphy and Emily Axford went on to create the Pop television series Hot Date in addition to working on Adam Ruins Everything[30] David Young went on to write for The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon and Carpool Karaoke: The Series[31] The CollegeHumor Show[edit] Main article: The CollegeHumor Show Jeff Rubin at the CollegeHumor presentation at the 2012 New York Comic Con On December 17, 2008, CollegeHumor.com announced The CollegeHumor Show, a scripted comedy that premiered on MTV on February 8, 2009.[32] The half-hour comedy was written by and starred nine CollegeHumor editorial staff members (Ricky Van Veen, Jake Hurwitz, Amir Blumenfeld, Dan Gurewitch, Patrick Cassels, Sarah Schneider, Streeter Seidell, Sam Reich and Jeff Rubin), who played fictionalized versions of themselves. Books[edit] The Writers of CollegeHumor.com (April 6, 2006). The CollegeHumor Guide to College: Selling Kidneys for Beer Money, Sleeping with Your Professors, Majoring in Communications, and Other Really Good Ideas. Dutton Adult. ISBN 0-525-94939-9. The Writers of CollegeHumor.com (March 27, 2007). Faking It: How to Seem like a Better Person without Actually Improving Yourself. Dutton Adult. ISBN 0-525-94991-7. The Writers of CollegeHumor.com (August 15, 2011). CollegeHumor. The Website. The Book. Da Capo Press. ISBN 0-306-82026-9. References[edit] ^ "Collegehumor.com Traffic, Demographics and Competitors - Alexa". Alexa Internet. Retrieved September 25, 2019. ^ "How A Couple Of Freshmen Built CollegeHumor Into A Profitable Cultural Phenomenon - with Josh Abramson - Mixergy". Mixergy. Retrieved April 23, 2018. ^ "Electus digital". Electus digital, LLC. Retrieved July 8, 2017. ^ "Quantcast Audience Profile". Quantcast. Archived from the original on September 6, 2012. Retrieved May 11, 2009. ^ Carothers, Carrie (June 15, 2006). "Business at Collegehumor.com Is No Joke". Fox News. Fox News. Archived from the original on December 13, 2011. ^ "IAC Acquires Controlling Interest in Connected Ventures, LLC, Parent of Leading Comedy Site CollegeHumor.com". ^ "11th Annual Webby Awards Nominees: 2007". The Webby Awards. Archived from the original on May 20, 2010. Retrieved November 16, 2008. ^ "The NMR Top 100 YouTube Channels: 100-76!". New Media Rockstars. Retrieved January 6, 2015. ^ Spangler, Todd (September 26, 2018). "CollegeHumor Launches Subscription Service for Edgy, Advertiser-Unfriendly Comedy". Variety. Retrieved September 29, 2018. ^ Patel, Sahil (September 27, 2018). "CollegeHumor makes a play for subscription revenue". Digiday. Retrieved September 29, 2018. ^ "IAC to Sell CollegeHumor, Which Will Cut Most of Its Workers". Bloomberg. ^ "Hurricane Survivor Tips From a Survivor" Archived 2012-03-20 at the Wayback Machine ^ "Electus Digital Names Andrew Bridgman Editor-In-Chief of CollegeHumor.com". Retrieved April 25, 2017. ^ "College Humor's Original CHTV section". CollegeHumor. Retrieved April 25, 2017. ^ "CollegeHumor's YouTube Channel". YouTube. Retrieved October 25, 2012. ^ "The Twenty (Intentionally) Funniest Web Videos of 2007". New York Magazine. November 11, 2007. Retrieved November 16, 2008. ^ "The Ursa Major Awards - 2014 winners". ursamajorawards.org. Retrieved July 8, 2019. ^ "YouTube 2007 Video Awards". YouTube. Retrieved November 16, 2008. ^ Hellyer, Isabelle (April 26, 2017). "Jake and Amir's Decade of Perfect Timing". Vice. Retrieved January 9, 2020. ^ Frucci, Adam (August 10, 2011). "CollegeHumor's Sarah Schneider Hired as a Writer at SNL". splitsider.com. Retrieved May 5, 2014. ^ Friar, Christine (August 11, 2011). "Sarah Schneider Joins 'SNL': College Humor's Leading Lady To Write For Upcoming Season". The Huffington Post. Retrieved April 2, 2014. ^ "In 'The Other Two,' former 'SNL' writers Chris Kelly and Sarah Schneider send-up social media stardom". Los Angeles Times. January 24, 2019. Retrieved January 9, 2020. ^ Steinberg, Brian; Steinberg, Brian (November 16, 2018). "Chris Kelly, Sarah Schneider Get Ready for 'The Other Two'". Variety. Retrieved January 9, 2020. ^ a b "Here's the Writing Staff of Saturday Night Live Season 44". Vulture. September 30, 2018. Retrieved February 6, 2019. ^ "Dan Gurewitch - Emmy Awards, Nominations, and Wins". Television Academy. Retrieved January 9, 2020. ^ "Dan Gurewitch '06 is on the writing team for one of the hottest shows on TV: 'Last Week Tonight with John Oliver'". Newhouse School. Syracuse University. Retrieved January 9, 2020. ^ "Pat Cassels - Emmy Awards, Nominations and Wins". Television Academy. Retrieved January 9, 2020. ^ "Owen Parsons - Emmy Awards, Nominations and Wins". Television Academy. Retrieved January 9, 2020. ^ Andreeva, Nellie; Andreeva, Nellie (December 3, 2019). "CBS Developing Kapital-Produced Comedies 'HR' & 'Next To You' From Mike Gibbons, Ben Joseph & Wendi Trilling". Deadline. Retrieved January 9, 2020. ^ Easton, Anne (November 8, 2017). "Emily Axford and Brian K. Murphy are the Married Masterminds Behind 'Hot Date'". Observer. Retrieved January 9, 2020. ^ Petski, Denise; Petski, Denise (November 19, 2019). "NBC Buys Couples Comedy 'Private Dickersons' From David Young & Fulwell 73". Deadline. Retrieved January 9, 2020. ^ Promo Video Containing date External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to CollegeHumor. Official website v t e CollegeHumor Web series Jake and Amir Very Mary-Kate Television The CollegeHumor Show Pranked Adam Ruins Everything Hot Date Films Coffee Town v t e IAC ANGI Homeservices Angie's List BlueCrew CraftJack Handy HomeAdvisor HomeStars Instapro mHelpDesk MyBuilder MyHammer Travaux Werkspot Ask Media Group Ask.com Ask Applications Excite Reference.com Sidewalk.com Dotdash The Balance Brides Byrdie Investopedia Lifewire MyDomaine The Spruce ThoughtCo TripSavvy Verywell Match Group Chemistry.com Hinge Match.com Meetic OkCupid Pairs People Media POF Tinder Mosaic Group Apalon DailyBurn iTranslate Robokiller TelTech Video CH Media CollegeHumor Dorkly Drawfee Dropout.tv Daily Burn IAC Films Vimeo Vimeo Livestream Other Properties CityGrid Media Citysearch Insider Pages The Daily Beast Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=CollegeHumor&oldid=947239606" Categories: CollegeHumor Internet properties established in 1999 Online companies of the United States IAC (company) YouTube channels Cultural depictions of Christian Bale Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles needing additional references from May 2016 All articles needing additional references Use mdy dates from July 2019 Articles containing potentially dated statements from September 2019 All articles containing potentially dated statements Articles containing potentially dated statements from November 2019 Articles needing additional references from October 2019 Commons category link from Wikidata Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ?eština Español Bahasa Indonesia ????? Nederlands Português ??????? Edit links This page was last edited on 25 March 2020, at 03:39 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Thomas@Franklin.org
