Content (media) - Wikipedia Content (media) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Content (media and publishing)) Jump to navigation Jump to search In publishing, art, and communication, content is the information and experiences that are directed toward an end-user or audience.[1] Content is "something that is to be expressed through some medium, as speech, writing or any of various arts".[2] Content can be delivered via many different media including the Internet, cinema, television, radio, smartphones, audio CDs, books, e-books, magazines, and live events, such as speeches, conferences, and stage performances. Contents 1 Content value 2 Technological effects on content 3 Criticism 4 See also 5 References Content value[edit] Content itself is what the user derives value from. Thus, "content" can refer to the information provided through the medium, the way in which the information was presented, as well as the added features included in the medium in which that information was delivered. The medium, however, provides little to no value to the end-user without the information and experiences that make up the content. Communication theory philosopher Marshall McLuhan famously coined the phrase, "The medium is the message."[3] In the case of content, the channel through which information is delivered, the "medium", affects how the end user perceives content, the "message". The author, producer, or publisher of an original source of information or experiences may or may not be directly responsible for the entire value that they attain as content in a specific context. For example, part of an original article (such as a headline from a news story) may be rendered on another web page displaying the results of a user's search engine query grouped with headlines from other news publications and related advertisements. The value that the original headline has in this group of query results from the search engine as a medium may be very different from the value that it had as message content in its original article. Content also leads to influencing other people in creating their own content, sometimes in a way that the original author did not or could not plan or imagine. This feature, adding the option of user innovation in a medium, means that users can develop their own content from existing content. Much social media content is derived in this way, by effectively re-cycling content in a slightly different format. Technological effects on content[edit] Traditionally, content was edited and tailored to the public through news editors, authors, and other kinds of content creators. However, not all information content requires creative authoring or editing. Through recent technological developments, truth is found in philosopher Marshall McLuhan's idea of a global village; new technologies allow for instantaneous movement of information from every corner to every point at the same time[4] causing the globe to be contracted into a village by electric technology,[5] such as smartphones and automated sensors. These new technologies can record events anywhere for publishing and converting in order to potentially reach a global audience through various internet channels such as YouTube. Such recorded or transmitted information and visuals can be referred to as content. Content is no longer a product of only reputable sources; new technology has made primary sources of content more readily available to all. For example, a video of a politician giving a speech compared to an article written by a reporter who witnessed the speech. Media production and delivery technology may potentially enhance the value of content by formatting, filtering, and combining original sources of content for new audiences with new contexts. The greatest value for a given source of content for a specific audience is often found through such electronic reworking of content as dynamic and real-time as the trends that fuel its interest. Less emphasis on value from content stored for possible use in its original form, and more emphasis on rapid re-purposing, reuse, and redeployment has led many publishers and media producers to view their primary function less as originators and more as transformers of content. Thus, one finds out that institutions, that used to focus on publishing printed materials, are now publishing both databases and software to combine content from various sources for a wider variety of audiences. Criticism[edit] While the marketing and media world have broadly accepted the term "content", some writers complain about its inherent vulnerability towards misinterpretation.[6] Others assert that the term devalues the work of authors or sets up a false analogy of information as material objects which biases any discussion using the word,[7][8] and still others argue that it overemphasizes the work of authors.[9] See also[edit] Advertising Authoring Content adaptation Content designer Content farm Content format Content management Content management system Content writing services Enterprise content management Free content Geotargeting Media transparency Open content User-generated content Web content management system Digital Marketing References[edit] ^ Odden, Lee (2013), "What is Content? Learn from 40+ Definitions" Archived 2014-02-25 at the Wayback Machine, TopRank Online Marketing Blog, Retrieved 2014-02-20 ^ "the definition of content". Dictionary.com. Archived from the original on 8 March 2016. Retrieved 3 May 2018. ^ McLuhan, Understanding Media: The Extensions of Man (MIT Press, 1964, 1994) p. 7. ^ McLuhan, Marshall. Letters of Marshall McLuhan. (Oxford University Press, 1987) p254. ^ McLuhan, Marshall. Understanding Media. (Gingko Press, 1964, 2003) p6. ^ Bowie, Adam (2009-11-22). "You See - This Is Why I Hate The Word "Content"". adambowie.com. Archived from the original on 2013-05-09. Retrieved 2012-02-18. ^ "Words to Avoid (or Use with Care) Because They Are Loaded or Confusing - GNU Project - Free Software Foundation (FSF)". Gnu.org. 2012-01-31. Archived from the original on 2013-06-03. Retrieved 2012-02-18. ^ "Jonathan Salem Baskin's Dim Bulb: I Hate the Word "Content"". Dimbulb.net. 2010-05-10. Archived from the original on 2011-05-10. Retrieved 2012-02-18. ^ "Why I hate the word Content - Because you meant to say product. - the little bits of BIG pictures - Site Home - MSDN Blogs". Blogs.msdn.com. 2007-11-18. Archived from the original on 2012-02-19. Retrieved 2012-02-18. Library resources about Content media Resources in your library Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Content_(media)&oldid=943645340" Categories: Publishing Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikiquote Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? ????????? Dansk ????? ??? Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Polski ?????????? Edit links This page was last edited on 3 March 2020, at 03:01 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
