Croatian Wikipedia - Wikipedia Croatian Wikipedia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Croatian Wikipedia Croatian Wikipedia's Main Page on March 19, 2017 Type of site Internet encyclopedia project Available in Croatian Owner Wikimedia Foundation URL hr.wikipedia.org Commercial No Registration Optional Launched February 16, 2003 The Croatian Wikipedia (Croatian: Wikipedija na hrvatskome jeziku) is the Croatian version of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia, started on February 16, 2003.[1] This version has 212,101 articles and a total of 5.36 million edits have been made (live count). It has 227,817 registered user accounts, out of which 561 are active (defined as having performed an action on Wikipedia in the last 30 days), and the number of administrators is 16. Since 2013, the Croatian Wikipedia has received attention from international media for promoting a fascist worldview as well as bias against Serbs of Croatia and anti-LGBT propaganda by the means of historical revisionism and by negating or diluting the severity of crimes committed by the Ustaše regime. Apart from whitewashing the crimes and vices of World War II-era criminals, the same is done for contemporary Croatian politicians and public figures; this is supported through massive usage of unreliable sources.[2] Throughout 2014, fewer than two dozen editors made more than 100 edits a month; around 150 made more than 5 edits a month.[3] Over 600 articles are ranked as featured (Croatian: Izabrani ?lanci).[4] Contents 1 Topics 2 2011 reliability analysis 3 Controversy about right-wing bias 3.1 Media reports about bias 3.2 Statements by Željko Jovanovi? 3.3 Interviews with historians 4 References 5 External links Topics[edit] As of 2019, the Croatian Wikipedia has 19,000 unique categories. The average article in this language version has 2 categories, while number of unique categories per articles ratio is 0.093. The largest number of articles has Science (26%) and Geography (18%) category. In Croatian Wikipedia articles related to Military and Technology have the highest average quality. Content about Mathematics is read more often and articles in Organizations category have the highest authors' interest on average.[5] 2011 reliability analysis[edit] In a study by Kubelka and Šoštari? from 2011, the reliability of the Croatian Wikipedia was compared to the Croatian Encyclopedia - the Croatian national encyclopedia.[6] Twenty-four reviewers, experts in specific fields, analyzed a representative selection of articles according to the parameters of informativeness, accuracy of presented information, sufficiency, direction and objectivity. Articles were analyzed in 11 thematic categories: arts and culture; history and biographies; medicine and health; technology and applied science; geography; religion; science; mathematics and logic; philosophy; sport and society; and social sciences. Articles were sorted into categories using machine learning techniques, and feature weight statistics were calculated using tf–idf. A total of 500 articles in 250 pairs were randomly chosen and sorted into categories to serve as representative samples.[7] In both samples facts were manually enumerated - 3015 from the Croatian Encyclopedia and 3315 from Croatian Wikipedia. Comparison for factual accuracy showed that for every error in the Croatian Encyclopedia 2.25 errors were found in Croatian Wikipedia.[8] Analysis by individual categories showed that most errors in Croatian Wikipedia were in the philosophy category, where on average two errors in ten articles were found. The only category where the Croatian Encyclopedia had more errors was natural sciences, where the ratio was 1.25:0.75 in favor of Croatian Wikipedia.[9] Of those factual errors, the ratio was 21:12 for major errors, and 34:23 for minor errors. The overall ratio for minor factual errors was thus lower, the only exception being the society and social sciences category, where the minor error ratio was 3:1. The reliability analysis for Croatian Wikipedia indicated that 74% of articles were error-free, and 11% had minor errors. Major factual errors were found in 5% of articles, while 4% of articles had both major and minor errors. Overall 85% of articles were deemed "satisfactory" (error-free and containing minor errors), while in comparison 92% of articles in the Croatian Encyclopedia achieved the same rating.[10] Forty percent of articles in Croatian Wikipedia were assessed as sufficiently informative, as opposed to sixty-two percent of articles in the Croatian Encyclopedia. Sixteen percent of Croatian Wikipedia articles were assessed as "insufficiently informative", as opposed to five percent of articles from the Croatian Encyclopedia.[11] The criterion of objectivity measured the neutral point of view in articles; 91% of Croatian Wikipedia articles were assessed as being neutral, as opposed to 98% in the Croatian Encyclopedia. Two percent of Croatian Wikipedia articles were assessed as non-neutral, as opposed to zero in the Croatian Encyclopedia.[11] According to their subjective preference, reviewers chose 53% of articles in the Croatian Encyclopedia as their preferred article version, while only 19.5% of Wikipedia articles were preferred, with 27% of articles being assessed as equal in quality.[12] Controversy about right-wing bias[edit] See also: Far-right politics in Croatia Sitenotice that translates to "official and public refutation of yellow journalism by Jutarnji list" Media reports about bias[edit] In September 2013, complaints about right-wing bias of administrators and editors on the Croatian Wikipedia began to receive attention from the media, following the launch of a Facebook page titled Razotkrivanje sramotne hr.wikipedije (Exposing the Disgraceful hr.Wikipedia) which was created with the intent of bringing attention to the issues.[13] Reported examples of bias include historical revisionism such as watering-down and denial of the crimes committed by the Ustashe regime, and equating anti-fascism with forms of totalitarianism.[14] Other issues included the bias against Serbs of Croatia and the LGBT population.[15][16] Editors who tried to remove the biased sections were reportedly being harassed by administrators and quickly received permanent blocks under various pretexts.[17] The issue was reported by Croatia's daily Jutarnji list and even made its print edition's front page on 11 September 2013.[18] Statements by Željko Jovanovi?[edit] Two days later, Croatia's Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Željko Jovanovi?, called for pupils and students in Croatia to avoid using the Croatian Wikipedia.[19] In an interview given to Novi list, Jovanovi? said that "the idea of openness and relevance as a knowledge source that Wikipedia could and should represent has been completely discredited – which, for certain, has never been the goal of Wikipedia's creators nor the huge number of people around the world who share their knowledge and time using that medium. Croatian pupils and students have been wronged by this, so we have to warn them, unfortunately, that a large part of the content of the Croatian version of Wikipedia is not only dubious but also [contains] obvious forgeries, and therefore we invite them to use more reliable sources of information, which include Wikipedia in English and in other major languages of the world."[19] Jovanovi? has also commented on the Croatian Wikipedia editors – calling them a "minority group that has usurped the right to edit the Croatian-language Wikipedia".[19] Interviews with historians[edit] In an interview given to Index.hr, Robert Kureli?, a professor of history at the Juraj Dobrila University of Pula, has commented that "the Croatian Wikipedia is only a tool used by its administrators to promote their own political agendas, giving false and distorted facts".[20] As two particularly prominent examples he listed the Croatian Wikipedia's coverage of the term Istrijanstvo (Istrian regionalism), defined as a "movement fabricated to reduce the number of Croats", and antifašizam (anti-fascism), which according to him is defined as the opposite of what it really means.[20] Kureli? further advised "that it would be good if a larger number of people got engaged and started writing on Wikipedia", because "administrators want to exploit high-school and university students, the most common users of Wikipedia, to change their opinions and attitudes, which presents a serious issue".[20] Snježana Koren, a historian at the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, University of Zagreb, has judged the disputed articles as "biased and malicious, partly even illiterate", in an interview with Croatian news agency HINA.[21] She further added that "These are the types of articles you can find on the pages of fringe organizations and movements, but there should be no place for that on Wikipedia", expressing doubts on the ability of its authors to distinguish good from evil.[21] Koren concludes that the ulterior motive of such writings is to rehabilitate the Independent State of Croatia, a Nazi Germany puppet state, and that "there is no other way to characterize such efforts than as Ustashi movement".[21] The Croatian Wikipedia page on the Jasenovac concentration camp is a prime example of its distortions. The Croatian version of the page refers to the WWII Jasenovac concentration camp as a “collection camp” and labour camp, downplays the crimes committed there as well as the number of victims and relies on right-wing media and private blogs as references.[22] Hrvoje Klasic, also a historian at the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences in Zagreb, stated to the Balkan Investigative Reporting Network that although Jasenovac was in part a labour camp, referring to it as that alone is "misleading", arguing that referring to Jasenovac as simply a collection and labour camp is to use "the same language as Ustasa propaganda" and also added that "a number of articles and topics are done in a completely revisionist manner [on the Croatian Wikipedia], with highly emphasised nationalist and, I would dare to say, pro-Ustasa sentiment".[22] References[edit] ^ "Glavna stranica". Wikipedia (in Croatian). Wikimedia Foundation. Retrieved 2011-10-31. ^ "Što nas Wikipedia u?i o medijskoj pismenosti: Kako su pali Daily Mail, Breitbart i InfoWars". Faktograf.hr (in Croatian). 18 October 2018. ^ "Wikipedia Statistics Croatian". stats.wikimedia.org. Wikimedia Foundation. Retrieved 2014-12-10. ^ "Izabrani ?lanci". Croatian Wikipedia (in Croatian). Wikimedia Foundation. February 18, 2013. Retrieved 2013-02-28. ^ Lewoniewski, W?odzimierz; W?cel, Krzysztof; Abramowicz, Witold (2019). "Multilingual Ranking of Wikipedia Articles with Quality and Popularity Assessment in Different Topics". Computers. 8 (3): 60. doi:10.3390/computers8030060. ^ Kubelka & Šoštari? 2013. ^ Kubelka & Šoštari? 2013, p. 124-125. ^ Kubelka & Šoštari? 2013, p. 127. ^ Kubelka & Šoštari? 2013, p. 128. ^ Kubelka & Šoštari? 2013, p. 129. ^ a b Kubelka & Šoštari? 2013, p. 130. ^ Kubelka & Šoštari? 2013, p. 131. ^ Sampson, Tim (October 1, 2013). "How pro-fascist ideologues are rewriting Croatia's history". dailydot.com. Retrieved July 1, 2015. ^ "Fascist movement takes over Croatian Wikipedia?". InSerbia News. Retrieved 13 September 2013. ^ Trolls hijack Wikipedia to turn articles against gays, Gay Star News ^ Tko prepravlja LGBT Hrvatsku na Wikipediji? ^ "Kako je hrvatsku Wikipediju uzurpirala ustašoidna desnica" [How did pro-Ustasha right-wing editors take Croatian Wikipedia] (in Croatian). Tportal. 11 September 2013. Retrieved 11 September 2013. ^ "Desni?ari preuzeli ure?ivanje hrvatske Wikipedije" [Right-wing editors took over the Croatian Wikipedia] (in Croatian). Jutarnji list. 10 September 2013. Retrieved 11 September 2013. ^ a b c "Jovanovi?: Djeco, ne baratajte hrvatskom Wikipedijom jer su sadržaji falsificirani" [Jovanovi?: "Children, do not use the Croatian Wikipedia because its contents are forgeries"] (in Croatian). Novi list. Retrieved 13 September 2013. ^ a b c "Jovanovi?eva poruka u?enicima i studentima: Ne koristite hrvatsku Wikipediju!" [Jovanovi?'s message to the pupils and students: Don't use Croatian Wikipedia!] (in Croatian). Index.hr. Retrieved 13 September 2013. ^ a b c "Hr.wikipedija pod pove?alom zbog falsificiranja hrvatske povijesti" [Croatian Wikipedia under a scrutiny for fabricating Croatian history!] (in Croatian). Novi list. Retrieved 15 September 2013. ^ a b Milekic, Sven (March 26, 2018). "How Croatian Wikipedia Made a Concentration Camp Disappear". BalkanInsight.com. Retrieved 27 November 2019. Kubelka, Ozren; Šoštari?, Petra (2013), "Wikipedija nasuprot Hrvatskoj enciklopediji, kvalitativan odnos slobodno i tradicionalno ure?enoga enciklopedijskoga sadržaja na hrvatskom jeziku" [Wikipedia opposite the Croatian Encyclopedia, a qualitative relation between a freely and a traditionally edited encyclopedic text in Croatian], Studia lexicographica (PDF) (in Croatian), Zagreb: Miroslav Krleža Lexicographical Institute, 9: 119–133, retrieved July 20, 2018 External links[edit] Croatian edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Wikimedia Commons has media related to Croatian Wikipedia. (in Croatian) Croatian Wikipedia (in Croatian) Croatian Wikipedia mobile version "Hrvati koji pišu najve?u svjetsku enciklopediju" (in Croatian). Jutarnji list. Archived from the original on 2012-10-21. Tanja Simi? (12 December 2005). "Hrvatski junaci Wikipedije" [Croatian heroes of Wikipedia]. Nacional (in Croatian). Archived from the original on 7 July 2012. Retrieved 7 July 2012. v t e List of Wikipedias by article count 6,000,000+ English 5,000,000+ Cebuano 3,000,000+ Swedish 2,000,000+ German French Dutch 1,000,000+ Russian Italian Spanish Polish Waray Vietnamese Japanese Chinese Arabic Portuguese Ukrainian 500,000+ Persian Catalan Serbian Norwegian (bokmål/riksmål) Indonesian 200,000+ Korean Finnish Hungarian Serbo-Croatian Czech Romanian Basque Turkish Malay Esperanto Armenian Bulgarian Hebrew Danish Chechen Southern Min Slovak Kazakh Minangkabau Croatian Estonian 100,000+ Lithuanian Belarusian Greek Southern Azerbaijani Slovene Galician Azerbaijani Simple English Norwegian (nynorsk) Urdu Hindi Thai Georgian Uzbek Latin Tamil Volapük Egyptian Arabic Welsh Macedonian Tajik Latvian Asturian 50,000+ Malagasy Occitan Tagalog Tatar Afrikaans Kyrgyz Bosnian Albanian Newar Cantonese Telugu Bengali Belarusian (Taraškievica) Breton Piedmontese Malayalam Javanese Luxembourgish Haitian Scots Marathi Swahili Irish Low Saxon Bashkir Silesian 20,000+ Western Punjabi Icelandic Chuvash West Frisian Sundanese Burmese Lombard Aragonese Yoruba Nepali Punjabi Gujarati Ido Bavarian Sicilian Bishnupriya Manipuri Alemannic Kurdish (Kurmanji) Kannada Kurdish (Sorani) Venetian Interlingua Quechua 10,000+ Acehnese Amharic Buginese Classical Chinese Eastern Min Faroese Mongolian Neapolitan Samogitian Scottish Gaelic Sinhalese Walloon Odia Yiddish Banyumasan Upper Sorbian Mazandarani Maithili Megrelian Limburgish Wu Sakha Sanskrit Ilokano Ossetian Hill Mari Emilian-Romagnol Sindhi Meadow Mari Pashto Zazaki Hakka Navajo Central Bicolano North Frisian 5,000+ Fiji Hindi Tarantino Kapampangan Northern Sotho Northern Sami Maori Shan Nahuatl Dutch Low Saxon Rusyn Khmer Bihari West Flemish Gan Crimean Tatar Tibetan Sardinian Vepsian Somali Gilaki Corsican Turkmen Võro Northern Luri Komi Erzya Kashubian 2,000+ Abkhazian Assamese Aymara Balinese Interlingue Manx Norman Saterland Frisian Udmurt Uyghur Zeelandic Lezgian Shona Cornish Ladino Picard Mirandese Konkani Romansh Guarani Komi-Permyak Ligurian Maltese Gorontalo Friulian Lower Sorbian Franco-Provençal Lingala Anglo-Saxon Divehi Chavacano Extremaduran Doteli Lao Kabyle Ripuarian Gagauz Lingua Franca Nova Hawaiian Livvi-Karelian Pangasinan Pali Avar Buryat Palatinate German Kalmyk Karachay-Balkar Banjar Hausa Santali 1,000+ Tulu Papiamentu Karakalpak Zhuang Pennsylvania German Kinyarwanda Tongan Novial Greenlandic Aramaic Jamaican Kabardian Tuvan Tok Pisin Tetum Kabiye Kikuyu Nauruan Igbo Bislama Aromanian Lak Lojban Tahitian Moksha Kongo Luganda Wolof Sranan Zulu 500+ Cherokee Latgalian Samoan Ingush Oromo Xhosa Norfolk Romani Old Church Slavonic Bambara Tswana Kirundi Cheyenne Twi Atikamekw Tumbuka Tsonga Sesotho Gothic Akan 200+ Chamorro Pontic Swati Fijian Adyghe Inuktitut Chichewa Ewe Kashmiri Inupiak Venda Sango Fula Dzongkha 100+ Tigrinya Cree 10+ Dinka 0+ Ndonga Choctaw Kuanyama Marshallese Hiri Motu Sichuan Yi Afar Muscogee Herero Kanuri Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Croatian_Wikipedia&oldid=939383689" Categories: Wikipedias by language Croatian encyclopedias Internet properties established in 2003 Croatian-language websites Internet in Croatia Hidden categories: CS1 Croatian-language sources (hr) Articles containing Croatian-language text Commons category link from Wikidata Articles with Croatian-language sources (hr) Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Meta-Wiki Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans ??????? ??????? Az?rbaycanca ????? ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)? ????????? Bosanski Català ??????? ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français ??? ??????? ?????? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? ??????? ??????? Kiswahili ???? ?????? Latviešu Magyar ?????????? Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? ??????? Occitan O?zbekcha/??????? Polski Português Român? ??????? Simple English ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Tagalog ????? ???????/tatarça ??? ?????? Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 6 February 2020, at 03:31 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
John@Everett.in
