Danish Wikipedia - Wikipedia Danish Wikipedia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Danish Wikipedia" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (September 2008) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article needs to be updated. Please update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (November 2010) Danish Wikipedia Type of site Internet encyclopedia project Available in Danish Headquarters Miami, Florida Owner Wikimedia Foundation URL da.wikipedia.org Commercial No Registration Optional The Danish Wikipedia (Danish: Dansk Wikipedia) started on 1 February 2002 and is the Danish language edition of Wikipedia. As of 27 March 2020, it has 255,270 articles. Its article depth is 66.44 (as of October 2017), a bit below the median value, but the best of the Wikipedias in the Nordic countries.[1] Contents 1 Characteristics 2 Topics 3 See also 4 References 5 External links Characteristics[edit] Assessment symbol used by the Danish Wikipedia for promising articles Symbol used for Articles of the Week No fair use: The Danish Wikipedia has no fair use provisions. No fair use claims are allowed and all images (except Wikimedia logos) must be available under a free license. Copyright law: Very few works are exempt from copyright under Danish law and the number of images available from third-party sources is much lower than for the English and German Wikipedias. Images excepted from copyright due to laws in the country of origin are accepted. Works by the Danish government are protected by copyright like other texts with the exception of laws and legal texts. However this exception does not apply to accompanying illustrations since these can be considered "works appearing as independent contributions" in these texts.[2] Government publications and Danish insignia are consequently protected by copyright similar to ordinary works. It is likely that the text of heraldic blazons is free provided that they were printed in the National Gazette, Statstidende (though the text may be free, an accompanying illustration is not). Composite works and joint works are protected until 70 years after the death of the last-living contributor.[3] All photos are protected by copyright for at least 50 years[4] and this protection is considered to also apply to photographs of works of art otherwise in the public domain. Photos with artistic merit are protected for 70 years p.m.a.[5] No equivalent of Bridgeman v. Corel exists, but a similar situation exists for pre-1970 images since simple photos published before 1 January 1970 are still regulated by the pre-1995 rules which operated with a short protection span for such works.[6] Freedom of panorama can be applied for images of buildings, but images of permanently installed works of art in public spaces are only exempt from copyright provided that such use is non-commercial.[7] Photos of statues can consequently only be used on the Danish Wikipedia provided that the sculptor died more than 70 years ago. A notable work of art with this problem is the Little Mermaid statue. Commons: Files uploaded to the Danish Wikipedia must be used in article space within a week, or the file will be listed for deletion. This rule was introduced to discourage local uploads, given that all images used on the Danish Wikipedia are compatible with the requirements of Commons. Uploads to Commons are strongly encouraged. Article assessment: The Danish Wikipedia has not yet adopted ratings equivalent to the English Wikipedia's featured articles and A-grade. The highest grade is Anbefalede artikler (AA) (recommended articles) which is defined as an equivalent of the English Wikipedia's good articles grade. Raising an article to this level requires a process similar in form to the Featured Articles process on the English Wikipedia and many criteria are similar. In addition, any article nominated for AA must previously have been elevated to Lovende artikler (LA) (promising articles)-grade. Categories equivalent to Stub-class, Start-class and B-class are also used. Anbefalede artikler are tagged with the GA symbol known from the English Wikipedia and Lovende artikler are tagged with a blue version of the same symbol. Projects and portals: Wikiprojects and portals have both been introduced inspired by the English Wikipedia. Examples are the History portal and "Shoot a Church", a project aimed at creating free images of Danish churches. GA task forces. The first AA-Taskforce was introduced in 2007. The goal is to elevate entire groups of articles to AA status. The idea is similar to the English Wikipedia's Featured topics, but article quality will be lower than on the English project. Two taskforces currently exist: Capitals of Europe and heavy metal music. Article of the Week: Ugens artikel (UA) features prominently on the front page for a single week. The article is selected by a vote and editors are strongly encouraged to improve it in the week leading up to its prominent display. Since Danish is mutually intelligible with Swedish and Norwegian, administrators of the site collaborate with those at the respective Wikipedias through the Skanwiki section of the Wikimedia Meta-Wiki site. Wikimedia Danmark is a Danish membership association with the purpose to support Wikimedia's projects, in particular those in the Danish, Faroese and Greenlandic languages, and aiming to become a national chapter of the Wikimedia Foundation. The association was formed at a meeting at the Unitarerneshuset in Copenhagen on 14 March 2009. The Wikimedia Foundation approved the chapter on 3 July 2009. The current chairman is Ole Andersen. Topics[edit] In 2019 the Danish Wikipedia has 62 thousand unique categories and 8% of them do not have appropriate page in the category namespace. The average article in this language version has 7 categories, while number of unique categories per articles ratio is 0.249. The largest number of articles has Organizations (27%) and People (10%) category. In Danish Wikipedia articles related to Crime and Events has the highest average quality. Content about Philosophy is read more often and has the highest authors' interest on average.[8] See also[edit] Norwegian Wikipedia Swedish Wikipedia References[edit] ^ "Wikipedia article depth - Meta". ^ § 9, 2 - see www.kum.dk/sw4550.asp Archived 13 December 2007 at the Wayback Machine ^ § 5 and 6 ^ § 70, 2 ^ § 63, 1 ^ § 90,2 in the Copyright Act: see http://www.kum.dk/sw4550.asp Archived 13 December 2007 at the Wayback Machine ^ § 24, 2 ^ Lewoniewski, W?odzimierz; W?cel, Krzysztof; Abramowicz, Witold (2019). "Multilingual Ranking of Wikipedia Articles with Quality and Popularity Assessment in Different Topics". Computers. 8 (3): 60. doi:10.3390/computers8030060. External links[edit] Danish edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (in Danish) Danish Wikipedia (in Danish) Danish Wikipedia mobile version Meta: Skanwiki Report from the Danish Wikipedia, Wikipedia Signpost, 25 September 2006. v t e List of Wikipedias by article count 6,000,000+ English 5,000,000+ Cebuano 3,000,000+ Swedish 2,000,000+ German French Dutch 1,000,000+ Russian Italian Spanish Polish Waray Vietnamese Japanese Chinese Arabic Portuguese Ukrainian 500,000+ Persian Catalan Serbian Norwegian (bokmål/riksmål) Indonesian 200,000+ Korean Finnish Hungarian Serbo-Croatian Czech Romanian Basque Turkish Malay Esperanto Armenian Bulgarian Hebrew Danish Chechen Southern Min Slovak Kazakh Minangkabau Croatian Estonian 100,000+ Lithuanian Belarusian Greek Southern Azerbaijani Slovene Galician Azerbaijani Simple English Norwegian (nynorsk) Urdu Hindi Thai Georgian Uzbek Latin Tamil Volapük Egyptian Arabic Welsh Macedonian Tajik Latvian Asturian 50,000+ Malagasy Occitan Tagalog Tatar Afrikaans Kyrgyz Bosnian Albanian Newar Cantonese Telugu Bengali Belarusian (Taraškievica) Breton Piedmontese Malayalam Javanese Luxembourgish Haitian Scots Marathi Swahili Irish Low Saxon Bashkir Silesian 20,000+ Western Punjabi Icelandic Chuvash West Frisian Sundanese Burmese Lombard Aragonese Yoruba Nepali Punjabi Gujarati Ido Bavarian Sicilian Bishnupriya Manipuri Alemannic Kurdish (Kurmanji) Kannada Kurdish (Sorani) Venetian Interlingua Quechua 10,000+ Acehnese Amharic Buginese Classical Chinese Eastern Min Faroese Mongolian Neapolitan Samogitian Scottish Gaelic Sinhalese Walloon Odia Yiddish Banyumasan Upper Sorbian Mazandarani Maithili Megrelian Limburgish Wu Sakha Sanskrit Ilokano Ossetian Hill Mari Emilian-Romagnol Sindhi Meadow Mari Pashto Zazaki Hakka Navajo Central Bicolano North Frisian 5,000+ Fiji Hindi Tarantino Kapampangan Northern Sotho Northern Sami Maori Shan Nahuatl Dutch Low Saxon Rusyn Khmer Bihari West Flemish Gan Crimean Tatar Tibetan Sardinian Vepsian Somali Gilaki Corsican Turkmen Võro Northern Luri Komi Erzya Kashubian 2,000+ Abkhazian Assamese Aymara Balinese Interlingue Manx Norman Saterland Frisian Udmurt Uyghur Zeelandic Lezgian Shona Cornish Ladino Picard Mirandese Konkani Romansh Guarani Komi-Permyak Ligurian Maltese Gorontalo Friulian Lower Sorbian Franco-Provençal Lingala Anglo-Saxon Divehi Chavacano Extremaduran Doteli Lao Kabyle Ripuarian Gagauz Lingua Franca Nova Hawaiian Livvi-Karelian Pangasinan Pali Avar Buryat Palatinate German Kalmyk Karachay-Balkar Banjar Hausa Santali 1,000+ Tulu Papiamentu Karakalpak Zhuang Pennsylvania German Kinyarwanda Tongan Novial Greenlandic Aramaic Jamaican Kabardian Tuvan Tok Pisin Tetum Kabiye Kikuyu Nauruan Igbo Bislama Aromanian Lak Lojban Tahitian Moksha Kongo Luganda Wolof Sranan Zulu 500+ Cherokee Latgalian Samoan Ingush Oromo Xhosa Norfolk Romani Old Church Slavonic Bambara Tswana Kirundi Cheyenne Twi Atikamekw Tumbuka Tsonga Sesotho Gothic Akan 200+ Chamorro Pontic Swati Fijian Adyghe Inuktitut Chichewa Ewe Kashmiri Inupiak Venda Sango Fula Dzongkha 100+ Tigrinya Cree 10+ Dinka 0+ Ndonga Choctaw Kuanyama Marshallese Hiri Motu Sichuan Yi Afar Muscogee Herero Kanuri Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Danish_Wikipedia&oldid=932974878" Categories: Danish-language websites Wikipedias by language Danish encyclopedias Internet properties established in 2002 Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles needing additional references from September 2008 All articles needing additional references Wikipedia articles in need of updating from November 2010 All Wikipedia articles in need of updating Articles containing Danish-language text Articles with Danish-language sources (da) Use dmy dates from February 2012 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans ??????? ??????? Az?rbaycanca ????? Bân-lâm-gú ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)? ????????? Català ??????? ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Føroyskt Français ??? ??????? ?????? Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? ??????? ??????? Kiswahili ???? ?????? Magyar ?????????? Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Occitan O?zbekcha/??????? Polski Português Român? ??????? Sardu Simple English Sloven?ina ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska Tagalog ????? ???????/tatarça ??? Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? Zazaki Žemait?ška ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 29 December 2019, at 07:53 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Joseph@Joseph.info
