Democratic media - Wikipedia Democratic media From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Democratic media" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (March 2008) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (March 2008) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Democratic media is a form of media organization that strives to have the principles of democracy underlying not only the production of content, but also the organization of the entire project. Contents 1 Definition of the term 2 Background of the term 3 See also 4 References Definition of the term[edit] Democratic Media is the idea that the media should be organised along democratic lines rather that strictly commercial lines. A functioning democratic media would aim for transparency, inclusiveness, one-person-one-vote and other key concepts of democracy as principals of operation: "This is a media whose primary objectives are to inform, be open, independent and be accountable."[1] This is in contrast to the belief that media should be run by commercial operations and with the objective of making a profit and the assumption that the media invariably reflects the opinions and values of the owner and advertisers. Advocates contrast it to state-run operations where the media reflects the value system of the state itself. Edward S Herman suggested the form that democratic media would take: “ A democratic media can be identified by its structure and functions. In terms of structure, it would be organized and controlled by ordinary citizens or their grass roots organisations....As regards function, a democratic media will aim first and foremost at serving the informational, cultural and other communications needs of members of the public which the media institutions comprise or represent.[2] ” Background of the term[edit] The idea of democratic media stems from the belief that media is a vital part of a democratic society. Robert W. McChesney, writing for the Boston Review in 2008, commented: “ First, media perform essential political, social, economic, and cultural functions in modern democracies. In such societies, media are the principal source of political information and access to public debate, and the key to an informed, participating, self-governing citizenry. Democracy requires a media system that provides people with a wide range of opinion and analysis and debate on important issues, reflects the diversity of citizens, and promotes public accountability of the powers-that-be and the powers-that-want-to-be.[3] ” To therefore, if media is vital for democracy, democratic media argues that media itself needs to be organized along different lines to the existing forms. McChesney again: “ The evidence is clear: if we want a media system that produces fundamentally different results, we need solutions that address the causes of the problems; have to address issues of media ownership, management, regulation, and subsidy. Our goal should be to craft a media system that reduces the power of a handful of enormous corporations and advertisers to dominate the media culture.[3] ” The idea of democratic media is still in its infancy, according to Carroll & Hackett (2006[4] where they term it "democratic media activism" however the idea does have older roots; In Triumph of the Market: Essays on Economics, Politics, and the Media Edward S Herman asserted that democratic media was a condition of democracy: “ A democratic media is a primary condition of popular rule, hence of a genuine political democracy. Where the media are controlled by a powerful and privileged elite, whether of government leaders and bureaucrats or those of the private sector, democratic political forms and some kind of limited political democracy may exist, but not genuine democracy.[5] ” The term has been used to describe a number of new media projects from Wikipedia[6] to the Indymedia movement to describe how it saw itself;[7] “ Indymedia is a democratic media outlet for the creation of radical, accurate, and passionate tellings of truth. ” Democratic media differs from similar (and related) concepts such as citizen media, media democracy and independent media (aka alternative media) in that it puts as much emphasis on the organization of the media project as it does on the content. (Note; this definition means that an independent media or citizen media project can also be a democratic media project, but being an independent media or citizen media project does not mean it is automatically a form of democratic media. It also means there could be a project that promotes the concepts of media democracy without it itself explicitly claiming to be a form of democratic media.) For a media project to be considered democratic media it must have (or strive towards) the following characteristics: Open publishing Transparency (humanities) Accountability Open access (publishing) Non-commercial See also[edit] Citizen media Independent media Indymedia Media democracy Propaganda model References[edit] ^ Towards A Democratic Media - Strategic Media Planning v3 ^ Herman, Edward S. (1997) Triumph of the Market: Essays on Economics, Politics and the Media. Montreal, Black Rose Books. p. 215 ^ a b McChesney, Robert W. (May 17, 2008). Boston Review https://web.archive.org/web/20080517002509/http://www.bostonreview.net/BR23.3/mcchesney.html. Archived from Making Media Democratic the original Check |url= value (help) on May 17, 2008. Missing or empty |title= (help) ^ http://mcs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/28/1/83 Democratic media activism through the lens of social movement theory ^ Herman, Edward S. (1997) Triumph of the Market: Essays on Economics, Politics and the Media. Montreal, Black Rose Books. p.213 ^ "Wikipedia: the dawn of democratic media?". Archived from the original on 2008-03-11. Retrieved 2008-03-13. ^ Nottingham Indymedia Flyer Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Democratic_media&oldid=920877572" Categories: Media issues Alternative media Hidden categories: Pages with citations lacking titles Pages with citations having bare URLs Pages with URL errors Articles needing additional references from March 2008 All articles needing additional references Articles that may contain original research from March 2008 All articles that may contain original research Articles with multiple maintenance issues Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? ??????? Edit links This page was last edited on 12 October 2019, at 13:15 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Everett@Frank.com
