Digital rights management - Wikipedia Digital rights management From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Technology to control access to copyrighted works This article may have too many section headers dividing up its content. Please help improve the article by merging similar sections and removing unneeded subheaders. (January 2017) Digital rights management (DRM) tools or technological protection measures (TPM)[1] are a set of access control technologies for restricting the use of proprietary hardware and copyrighted works.[2] DRM technologies try to control the use, modification, and distribution of copyrighted works (such as software and multimedia content), as well as systems within devices that enforce these policies.[3] The use of digital rights management is not universally accepted. Proponents of DRM argue that it is necessary to prevent intellectual property from being copied freely, just as physical locks are needed to prevent personal property from being stolen,[1] that it can help the copyright holder maintain artistic control,[4] and that it can ensure continued revenue streams.[5] Those opposed to DRM contend there is no evidence that DRM helps prevent copyright infringement, arguing instead that it serves only to inconvenience legitimate customers, and that DRM helps big business stifle innovation and competition.[6] Furthermore, works can become permanently inaccessible if the DRM scheme changes or if the service is discontinued.[7] DRM can also restrict users from exercising their legal rights under the copyright law, such as backing up copies of CDs or DVDs (instead having to buy another copy, if it can still be purchased), lending materials out through a library, accessing works in the public domain, or using copyrighted materials for research and education under the fair use doctrine.[1] Worldwide, many laws have been created which criminalize the circumvention of DRM, communication about such circumvention, and the creation and distribution of tools used for such circumvention. Such laws are part of the United States' Digital Millennium Copyright Act,[8] and the European Union's Information Society Directive,[9] (the French DADVSI is an example of a member state of the European Union ("EU") implementing the directive).[10] Contents 1 Introduction 2 Technologies 2.1 Verifications 2.1.1 Product keys 2.1.2 Limited install activations 2.1.3 Persistent online authentication 2.2 Encryption 2.3 Copying Restriction 2.4 Anti-tampering 2.5 Regional lockout 2.6 Tracking 2.6.1 Watermarks 2.6.2 Metadata 2.7 Television 3 Laws 3.1 China 3.2 European Union 3.3 India 3.4 Israel 3.5 United States 3.6 International issues 4 Opposition 4.1 Public Licenses 4.2 DRM-free works 5 Shortcomings 5.1 Reliability 5.2 Usability 5.3 Performance 5.4 Fundamental bypass 5.4.1 Always technically breakable 5.4.2 Analog recording 5.5 Consumer rights implication 5.5.1 Ownership issue after purchase 5.5.2 Compulsory bundled software 5.5.3 Obsolescence 5.5.4 Selective Enforcement 5.6 Economic implication 5.6.1 Lost benefits from massive market share 5.6.2 Push away legitimate customer 5.6.3 Anti-competition practice 6 Alternatives 6.1 "Easy and cheap" 6.2 Crowdfunding or pre-order model 6.3 Digital content as promotion for traditional products 6.4 Artistic Freedom Voucher 7 See also 7.1 Related concepts 7.2 Lawsuits 7.3 Organizations 8 References 9 Further reading 10 External links Introduction[edit] The rise of digital media and analog-to-digital conversion technologies has vastly increased the concerns of copyright-owning individuals and organizations, particularly within the music and movie industries. While analog media inevitably lose quality with each copy generation, and in some cases even during normal use, digital media files may be duplicated an unlimited number of times with no degradation in the quality. The rise of personal computers as household appliances has made it convenient for consumers to convert media (which may or may not be copyrighted) originally in a physical, analog or broadcast form into a universal, digital form (this process is called ripping) for portability or viewing later. This, combined with the Internet and popular file-sharing tools, has made unauthorized distribution of copies of copyrighted digital media (also called digital piracy) much easier. In 1983, a very early implementation of Digital Rights Management (DRM) was the Software Service System (SSS) devised by the Japanese engineer Ryuichi Moriya. [11] and subsequently refined under the name superdistribution. The SSS was based on encryption, with specialized hardware that controlled decryption and also enabled payments to be sent to the copyright holder. The underlying principle of the SSS and subsequently of superdistribution was that the distribution of encrypted digital products should be completely unrestricted and that users of those products would not just be permitted to redistribute them but would actually be encouraged to do so. Common DRM techniques include restrictive licensing agreements: The access to digital materials, copyright and public domain is restricted to consumers as a condition of entering a website or when downloading software.[12] Encryption, scrambling of expressive material and embedding of a tag, which is designed to control access and reproduction of information, including backup copies for personal use.[13] DRM technologies enable content publishers to enforce their own access policies on content, such as restrictions on copying or viewing. These technologies have been criticized for restricting individuals from copying or using the content legally, such as by fair use. DRM is in common use by the entertainment industry (e.g., audio and video publishers).[14] Many online music stores, such as Apple's iTunes Store, and e-book publishers and vendors, such as OverDrive, also use DRM, as do cable and satellite service operators, to prevent unauthorized use of content or services. However, Apple dropped DRM from all iTunes music files around 2009.[15] Industry has expanded the usage of DRM to more traditional hardware products, such as Keurig's coffeemakers,[16][17] Philips' light bulbs,[18][19] mobile device power chargers,[20][21][22] and John Deere's tractors.[23] For instance, tractor companies try to prevent farmers from making DIY repairs under the usage of DRM-laws such as DMCA.[24] Technologies[edit] Verifications[edit] Product keys[edit] One of the oldest and least complicated DRM protection methods for computer and Nintendo Entertainment System games was when the game would pause and prompt the player to look up a certain page in a booklet or manual that came with the game; if the player lacked access to such material, they would not be able to continue the game. A product key, a typically alphanumerical serial number used to represent a license to a particular piece of software, served a similar function. During the installation process or launch for the software, the user is asked to input the key; if the key correctly corresponds to a valid license (typically via internal algorithms), the key is accepted, then the user who bought the game can continue. In modern practice, product keys are typically combined with other DRM practices (such as online "activation"), as the software could be cracked to run without a product key, or "keygen" programs could be developed to generate keys that would be accepted. Limited install activations[edit] Some DRM systems limit the number of installations a user can activate on different computers by requiring authentication with an online server. Most games with this restriction allow three or five installs, although some allow an installation to be 'recovered' when the game is uninstalled. This not only limits users who have more than three or five computers in their homes, but can also prove to be a problem if the user has to unexpectedly perform certain tasks like upgrading operating systems or reformatting the computer's storage device. In mid-2008, the Windows version of Mass Effect marked the start of a wave of titles primarily making use of SecuROM for DRM and requiring authentication with a server. The use of the DRM scheme in 2008's Spore backfired and there were protests, resulting in a considerable number of users seeking an unlicensed version instead. This backlash against the three-activation limit was a significant factor in Spore becoming the most pirated game in 2008, with TorrentFreak compiling a "top 10" list with Spore topping the list.[25][26] However, Tweakguides concluded that the presence of intrusive DRM does not appear to increase video game piracy, noting that other games on the list such as Call of Duty 4 and Assassin's Creed use DRM which has no install limits or online activation. Additionally, other video games that do use intrusive DRM such as BioShock, Crysis Warhead, and Mass Effect, do not appear on the list.[27] Persistent online authentication[edit] Main article: Always-on DRM Many mainstream publishers continued to rely on online DRM throughout the later half of 2008 and early 2009, including Electronic Arts, Ubisoft, Valve, and Atari, The Sims 3 being a notable exception in the case of Electronic Arts.[28] Ubisoft broke with the tendency to use online DRM in late 2008, with the release of Prince of Persia as an experiment to "see how truthful people really are" regarding the claim that DRM was inciting people to use illegal copies.[29] Although Ubisoft has not commented on the results of the "experiment", Tweakguides noted that two torrents on Mininova had over 23,000 people downloading the game within 24 hours of its release.[30] Ubisoft formally announced a return to online authentication on 9 February 2010, through its Uplay online game platform, starting with Silent Hunter 5, The Settlers 7, and Assassin's Creed II.[31] Silent Hunter 5 was first reported to have been compromised within 24 hours of release,[32] but users of the cracked version soon found out that only early parts of the game were playable.[33] The Uplay system works by having the installed game on the local PCs incomplete and then continuously downloading parts of the game-code from Ubisoft's servers as the game progresses.[34] It was more than a month after the PC release in the first week of April that software was released that could bypass Ubisoft's DRM in Assassin's Creed II. The software did this by emulating a Ubisoft server for the game. Later that month, a real crack was released that was able to remove the connection requirement altogether.[35][36] In early March 2010, the Uplay servers suffered a period of inaccessibility due to a large-scale DDoS attack, causing around 5% of game owners to become locked out of playing their game.[37] The company later credited owners of the affected games with a free download, and there has been no further downtime.[38] Other developers, such as Blizzard Entertainment are also shifting to a strategy where most of the game logic is on the "side" or taken care of by the servers of the game maker. Blizzard uses this strategy for its game Diablo III and Electronic Arts used this same strategy with their reboot of SimCity, the necessity of which has been questioned.[39] Encryption[edit] An early example of a DRM system is the Content Scrambling System (CSS) employed by the DVD Forum on film DVDs circa 1996. CSS uses an encryption algorithm to encrypt content on the DVD disc. Manufacturers of DVD players must license this technology and implement it in their devices so that they can decrypt the encrypted content to play it. The CSS license agreement includes restrictions on how the DVD content is played, including what outputs are permitted and how such permitted outputs are made available. This keeps the encryption intact as the video material is played out to a TV. In 1999, Jon Lech Johansen released an application called DeCSS, which allowed a CSS-encrypted DVD to play on a computer running the Linux operating system, at a time when no licensed DVD player application for Linux had yet been created. The legality of DeCSS is questionable: one of the authors has been the subject of a lawsuit, and reproduction of the keys themselves is subject to restrictions as illegal numbers.[40] Encryption can ensure that other restriction measures cannot be bypassed by modifying the software, so sophisticated DRM systems rely on encryption to be fully effective. More modern examples include ADEPT, FairPlay, Advanced Access Content System. Copying Restriction[edit] Further restrictions can be applied to electronic books and documents, in order to prevent copying, printing, forwarding, and saving backups. This is common for both e-publishers and enterprise Information Rights Management. It typically integrates with content management system software but corporations such as Samsung Electronics also develop their own custom DRM systems.[41] While some commentators believe DRM makes e-book publishing complex,[42] it has been used by organizations such as the British Library in its secure electronic delivery service to permit worldwide access to substantial numbers of rare documents which, for legal reasons, were previously only available to authorized individuals actually visiting the Library's document centre at Boston Spa in England.[43][44][45] There are four main e-book DRM schemes in common use today, one each from Adobe, Amazon, Apple, and the Marlin Trust Management Organization (MTMO). Adobe's DRM is applied to EPUBs and PDFs, and can be read by several third-party e-book readers, as well as Adobe Digital Editions (ADE) software. Barnes & Noble uses a DRM technology provided by Adobe, applied to EPUBs and the older PDB (Palm OS) format e-books. Amazon's DRM is an adaption of the original Mobipocket encryption and is applied to Amazon's .azw4, KF8, and Mobipocket format e-books. Topaz format e-books have their own encryption system.[46] Apple's FairPlay DRM is applied to EPUBs and can currently only be read by Apple's iBooks app on iOS devices and Mac OS computers.[citation needed] The Marlin DRM was developed and is maintained in an open industry group known as the Marlin Developer Community (MDC) and is licensed by MTMO. (Marlin was founded by five companies, Intertrust, Panasonic, Philips, Samsung, and Sony.) The Kno online textbook publisher uses Marlin to protect e-books it sells in the EPUB format. These books can be read on the Kno App for iOS and Android. Anti-tampering[edit] The Microsoft operating system, Windows Vista, contains a DRM system called the Protected Media Path, which contains the Protected Video Path (PVP). PVP tries to stop DRM-restricted content from playing while unsigned software is running, in order to prevent the unsigned software from accessing the content. Additionally, PVP can encrypt information during transmission to the monitor or the graphics card, which makes it more difficult to make unauthorized recordings. Bohemia Interactive have used a form of technology since Operation Flashpoint: Cold War Crisis, wherein if the game copy is suspected of being unauthorized, annoyances like guns losing their accuracy or the players being turned into a bird are introduced.[47] Croteam, the company that released Serious Sam 3: BFE in November 2011, implemented a different form of DRM wherein, instead of displaying error messages that stop the illicit version of the game from running, it causes a special invincible foe in the game to appear and constantly attack the player until he or she is killed.[48][49] Regional lockout[edit] Main article: Regional lockout Also in 1999, Microsoft released Windows Media DRM, which read instructions from media files in a rights management language that stated what the user may do with the media.[50] Later versions of Windows Media DRM implemented music subscription services that make downloaded files unplayable after subscriptions are cancelled, along with the ability for a regional lockout.[51] Tracking[edit] Watermarks[edit] Digital watermarks are steganographically embedded within audio or video data during production or distribution. They can be used for recording the copyright owner, the distribution chain or identifying the purchaser of the music. They are not complete DRM mechanisms in their own right, but are used as part of a system for copyright enforcement, such as helping provide prosecution evidence for legal purposes, rather than direct technological restriction.[52] Some programs used to edit video and/or audio may distort, delete, or otherwise interfere with watermarks. Signal/modulator-carrier chromatography may also separate watermarks from original audio or detect them as glitches. Additionally, comparison of two separately obtained copies of audio using simple, home-grown algorithms can often reveal watermarks.[citation needed] Metadata[edit] Sometimes, metadata is included in purchased media which records information such as the purchaser's name, account information, or email address. Also included may be the file's publisher, author, creation date, download date, and various notes. This information is not embedded in the played content, like a watermark, but is kept separate, but within the file or stream. As an example, metadata is used in media purchased from Apple's iTunes Store for DRM-free as well as DRM-restricted versions of their music or videos. This information is included as MPEG standard metadata.[53][54] Television[edit] The CableCard standard is used by cable television providers in the United States to restrict content to services to which the customer has subscribed. The broadcast flag concept was developed by Fox Broadcasting in 2001, and was supported by the MPAA and the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC). A ruling in May 2005, by a United States courts of appeals held that the FCC lacked authority to impose it on the TV industry in the US. It required that all HDTVs obey a stream specification determining whether a stream can be recorded. This could block instances of fair use, such as time-shifting. It achieved more success elsewhere when it was adopted by the Digital Video Broadcasting Project (DVB), a consortium of about 250 broadcasters, manufacturers, network operators, software developers, and regulatory bodies from about 35 countries involved in attempting to develop new digital TV standards. An updated variant of the broadcast flag has been developed in the Content Protection and Copy Management group under DVB (DVB-CPCM). Upon publication by DVB, the technical specification was submitted to European governments in March 2007. As with much DRM, the CPCM system is intended to control use of copyrighted material by the end-user, at the direction of the copyright holder. According to Ren Bucholz of the EFF, which paid to be a member of the consortium, "You won't even know ahead of time whether and how you will be able to record and make use of particular programs or devices".[55] The normative sections have now all been approved for publication by the DVB Steering Board, and will be published by ETSI as a formal European Standard as ETSI TS 102 825-X where X refers to the Part number of specification. Nobody has yet stepped forward to provide a Compliance and Robustness regime for the standard (though several are rumoured to be in development), so it is not presently possible to fully implement a system, as there is nowhere to obtain the necessary device certificates. Laws[edit] This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Digital rights management" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (May 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) The examples and perspective in this section may not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this section, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new section, as appropriate. (November 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) The 1996 World Intellectual Property Organization Copyright Treaty (WCT) requires nations to enact laws against DRM circumvention, and has been implemented in most member states of the World Intellectual Property Organization. The United States implementation is the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), while in Europe the treaty has been implemented by the 2001 Information Society Directive, which requires member states of the European Union to implement legal protections for technological prevention measures. In 2006[update], the lower house of the French parliament adopted such legislation as part of the controversial DADVSI law, but added that protected DRM techniques should be made interoperable, a move which caused widespread controversy in the United States. The Tribunal de grande instance de Paris concluded in 2006, that the complete blocking of any possibilities of making private copies was an impermissible behaviour under French copyright law.[56] China[edit] In 1998 "Interim Regulations" were founded in China, referring to the DMCA.[57] China also has Intellectual Property Rights, which to the World Trade Organization, was "not in compliance with the Berne Convention".[57] The WTO panel "determined that China's copyright laws do not provide the same efficacy to non- Chinese nationals as they do to Chinese citizens, as required by the Berne Convention". and that "China's copyright laws do not provide enforcement procedures so as to permit effective action against any act of infringement of intellectual property rights".[57] European Union[edit] For broader coverage of this topic, see Copyright law of the European Union. On 22 May 2001, the European Union passed the Information Society Directive, an implementation of the 1996 WIPO Copyright Treaty, that addressed many of the same issues as the DMCA. On 25 April 2007, the European Parliament supported the first directive of EU, which aims to harmonize criminal law in the member states. It adopted a first reading report on harmonizing the national measures for fighting copyright abuse. If the European Parliament and the Council approve the legislation, the submitted directive will oblige the member states to consider a crime a violation of international copyright committed with commercial purposes. The text suggests numerous measures: from fines to imprisonment, depending on the gravity of the offense. The EP members supported the Commission motion, changing some of the texts. They excluded patent rights from the range of the directive and decided that the sanctions should apply only to offenses with commercial purposes. Copying for personal, non-commercial purposes was also excluded from the range of the directive. In 2012, the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled in favor of reselling copyrighted games, prohibiting any preventative action that would prevent such transaction.[58] The court said that "The first sale in the EU of a copy of a computer program by the copyright holder or with his consent exhausts the right of distribution of that copy in the EU. A rightholder who has marketed a copy in the territory of a Member State of the EU thus loses the right to rely on his monopoly of exploitation in order to oppose the resale of that copy."[59] In 2014, the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that circumventing DRM on game devices may be legal under some circumstances, limiting the legal protection to only cover technological measures intended to prevent or eliminate unauthorised acts of reproduction, communication, public offer or distribution.[60][61] India[edit] India is not a signatory to WIPO Copyright Treaty nor the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty.[62] However, as a part of its 2012 amendment of copyright laws, it implemented digital rights management protection.[63] Section 65A of Copyright Act, 1957 imposed criminal sanctions on circumvention of "effective technological protection measures".[64] Section 65B criminalized interference with digital rights management information. Any distribution of copies whose rights management information was modified was also criminalized by Section 65B.[64] The terms used in the provisions were not specifically defined, with the concerned Parliamentary Standing Committee indicating the same to have been deliberate. The Standing Committee noted that similar terms in developed terms were used to considerable complexity and therefore in light of the same, it was preferable to keep it open-ended.[64] A prison sentence is mandatory under both provisions, with a maximum term of 2 years in addition to fine, which is discretionary. While the statute doesn't include exceptions to copyright infringement, including fair use directly, Section 65A allows measures "unless they are expressly prohibited", which may implicitly include such exceptions.[63] Section 65B however, lacks any exceptions.[65] Further. Section 65B (digital rights management information) allows resort to other civil provisions, unlike Section 65A.[65][64] It is important to note that the WIPO Internet Treaties themselves do not mandate criminal sanctions, merely requiring "effective legal remedies."[66] Thus, India's adoption of criminal sanctions ensures compliance with the highest standards of the WIPO internet treaties. Given the 2012 amendment, India's entry to the WIPO Internet Treaties appears facilitated,[67] especially since ratification of the WIPO Internet Treaties is mandatory under agreements like the RCEP.[63] Israel[edit] As of 2019[update] Israel had not ratified the WIPO Copyright Treaty. Israeli law does not currently expressly prohibit the circumvention of technological measures used to implement digital rights management. In June 2012 The Israeli Ministry of Justice proposed a bill to prohibit such activities, but the Knesset did not pass it. In September 2013, the Supreme Court ruled that the current copyright law could not be interpreted to prohibit the circumvention of digital rights management, though the Court left open the possibility that such activities could result in liability under the law of unjust enrichment.[68] United States[edit] Main article: Digital Millennium Copyright Act In May 1998, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) passed as an amendment to US copyright law, which criminalizes the production and dissemination of technology that lets users circumvent technical copy-restriction methods. (For a more detailed analysis of the statute, see WIPO Copyright and Performances and Phonograms Treaties Implementation Act.) Reverse engineering of existing systems is expressly permitted under the Act under the specific condition of a safe harbor, where circumvention is necessary to achieve interoperability with other software . See 17 U.S.C. Sec. 1201(f). Open-source software to decrypt content scrambled with the Content Scrambling System and other encryption techniques presents an intractable problem with the application of the Act. Much depends on the intent of the actor. If the decryption is done for the purpose of achieving interoperability of open source operating systems with proprietary operating systems, it would be protected by Section 1201(f) the Act. Cf., Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Corley, 273 F.3d 429 (2d Cir. 2001) at notes 5 and 16. However, dissemination of such software for the purpose of violating or encouraging others to violate copyrights has been held illegal. See Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Reimerdes, 111 F. Supp. 2d 346 (S.D.N.Y. 2000). The DMCA has been largely ineffective in protecting DRM systems,[69] as software allowing users to circumvent DRM remains widely available. However, those who wish to preserve the DRM systems have attempted to use the Act to restrict the distribution and development of such software, as in the case of DeCSS. Although the Act contains an exception for research, the exception is subject to vague qualifiers that do little to reassure researchers. Cf., 17 U.S.C. Sec. 1201(g). The DMCA has affected cryptography, because many[who?] fear that cryptanalytic research may violate the DMCA. In 2001, the arrest of Russian programmer Dmitry Sklyarov for alleged infringement of the DMCA was a highly publicized example of the law's use to prevent or penalize development of anti-DRM measures. He was arrested in the US after a presentation at DEF CON, and spent several months in jail. The DMCA has also been cited as chilling to non-criminal inclined users, such as students of cryptanalysis including, Professor Felten and students at Princeton University;[70] security consultants, such as Netherlands based Niels Ferguson, who declined to publish vulnerabilities he discovered in Intel's secure-computing scheme due to fear of being arrested under the DMCA when he travels to the US; and blind or visually impaired users of screen readers or other assistive technologies.[71] International issues[edit] In Europe, there have been several ongoing dialog activities that are characterized by their consensus-building intention: January 2001 Workshop on Digital Rights Management of the World Wide Web Consortium .[72] 2003 Participative preparation of the European Committee for Standardization/Information Society Standardization System (CEN/ISSS) DRM Report.[73] 2005 DRM Workshops of Directorate-General for Information Society and Media (European Commission), and the work of the High Level Group on DRM.[74] 2005 Gowers Review of Intellectual Property by the British Government from Andrew Gowers published in 2006 with recommendations regarding copyright terms, exceptions, orphaned works, and copyright enforcement. 2004 Consultation process of the European Commission, DG Internal Market, on the Communication COM(2004)261 by the European Commission on "Management of Copyright and Related Rights" (closed).[75] The AXMEDIS project, a European Commission Integrated Project of the FP6, has as its main goal automating content production, copy protection, and distribution, to reduce the related costs, and to support DRM at both B2B and B2C areas, harmonizing them. The INDICARE project is an ongoing dialogue on consumer acceptability of DRM solutions in Europe. It is an open and neutral platform for exchange of facts and opinions, mainly based on articles by authors from science and practice. Opposition[edit] Many organizations, prominent individuals, and computer scientists are opposed to DRM. Two notable DRM critics are John Walker, as expressed for instance, in his article "The Digital Imprimatur: How Big brother and big media can put the Internet genie back in the bottle",[76] and Richard Stallman in his article The Right to Read[77] and in other public statements: "DRM is an example of a malicious feature – a feature designed to hurt the user of the software, and therefore, it's something for which there can never be toleration".[78] Stallman also believes that using the word "rights" is misleading and suggests that the word "restrictions", as in "Digital Restrictions Management", be used instead.[79] This terminology has since been adopted by many other writers and critics unconnected with Stallman.[80][81][82] Other prominent critics of DRM include Professor Ross Anderson of Cambridge University, who heads a British organization which opposes DRM and similar efforts in the UK and elsewhere, and Cory Doctorow, a writer and technology blogger.[83] The EFF and similar organizations such as FreeCulture.org also hold positions which are characterized as opposed to DRM.[84] The Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure has criticized DRM's effect as a trade barrier from a free market perspective.[85] Bill Gates spoke about DRM at CES in 2006. According to him, DRM is not where it should be, and causes problems for legitimate consumers while trying to distinguish between legitimate and illegitimate users.[86] There have been numerous others who see DRM at a more fundamental level. This is similar to some of the ideas in Michael H. Goldhaber's presentation about "The Attention Economy and the Net" at a 1997 conference on the "Economics of Digital Information".[87] (sample quote from the "Advice for the Transition" section of that presentation:[87] "If you can't figure out how to afford it without charging, you may be doing something wrong.") Defective by Design member protesting DRM on 25 May 2007. The Norwegian consumer rights organization "Forbrukerrådet" complained to Apple Inc. in 2007, about the company's use of DRM in, and in conjunction with, its iPod and iTunes products. Apple was accused of restricting users' access to their music and videos in an unlawful way, and of using EULAs which conflict with Norwegian consumer legislation. The complaint was supported by consumers' ombudsmen in Sweden and Denmark, and is currently[when?] being reviewed in the EU. Similarly, the United States Federal Trade Commission held hearings in March 2009, to review disclosure of DRM limitations to customers' use of media products.[88] Valve president Gabe Newell also stated "most DRM strategies are just dumb" because they only decrease the value of a game in the consumer's eyes. Newell suggests that the goal should instead be "[creating] greater value for customers through service value". Valve operates Steam, a service which serves as an online store for PC games, as well as a social networking service and a DRM platform.[89] At the 2012 Game Developers Conference, the CEO of CD Projekt Red, Marcin Iwinski, announced that the company will not use DRM in any of its future releases. Iwinski stated of DRM, "it's just over-complicating things. We release the game. It's cracked in two hours, it was no time for Witcher 2. What really surprised me is that the pirates didn't use the GOG version, which was not protected. They took the SecuROM retail version, cracked it and said 'we cracked it' – meanwhile there's a non-secure version with a simultaneous release. You'd think the GOG version would be the one floating around." Iwinski added after the presentation, "DRM does not protect your game. If there are examples that it does, then people maybe should consider it, but then there are complications with legit users."[90] The Association for Computing Machinery and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers have historically opposed DRM, even going so far as to name AACS as a technology "most likely to fail" in an issue of IEEE Spectrum.[91] Tools like FairUse4WM have been created to strip Windows Media of DRM restrictions.[92] Websites – such as library.nu (shut down by court order on 15 February 2012), BookFi, BookFinder, Library Genesis, and Science Hub – have gone further to allow downloading e-books by violating copyright.[93][94][95][96] Public Licenses[edit] The final version of the GNU General Public License version 3, as released by the Free Software Foundation, has a provision that "strips" DRM of its legal value, so people can break the DRM on GPL software without breaking laws like the DMCA. Also, in May 2006, the FSF launched a "Defective by Design" campaign against DRM.[97][98] Creative Commons provides licensing options encouraging the expansion of and building upon creative work without the use of DRM.[99] In addition, Creative Commons licenses have anti-DRM clauses, therefore the use of DRM by a licensee to restrict the freedoms granted by a Creative Commons license is a breach of the Baseline Rights asserted by the licenses.[100] DRM-free works[edit] Label proposed by the Free Software Foundation for DRM-free works In reaction to opposition to DRM, many publishers and artists label their works as "DRM-free". Major companies that have done so include the following: Apple Inc. sold DRM content on their iTunes Store when it launched in 2003, but made music DRM-free after April 2007[101] and has been labeling all music as "DRM-Free" since January 2009.[102] The music still carries a digital watermark to identify the purchaser. Other works sold on iTunes such as apps, audiobooks, movies, and TV shows continue to be protected by DRM.[103] Since 2014, Comixology, which distributes digital comics, has allowed rights holders to provide the option of a DRM-free download of purchased comics. Publishers which allow this include Dynamite Entertainment, Image Comics, Thrillbent, Top Shelf Productions, and Zenescope Entertainment.[104] GOG.com (formerly Good Old Games), a digital distributor since 2008, specializes in the distribution of PC video games. While most other digital distribution services allow various forms of DRM (or have them embedded), gog.com has a strict non-DRM policy.[105] All music sold on Google Play is DRM free. Tor Books, a major publisher of science fiction and fantasy books, first sold DRM-free e-books in July 2012.[106] Smaller e-book publishers, such as Baen Books and O'Reilly Media, had already forgone DRM previously. Vimeo on Demand is one of the publishers included in the Free Software Foundation's DRM-free guide.[107] Shortcomings[edit] Reliability[edit] Many DRM systems require authentication with an online server. Whenever the server goes down, or a region or country experiences an Internet outage, it effectively locks out people from registering or using the material. This is especially true for a product that requires a persistent online authentication, where, for example, a successful DDoS attack on the server would essentially make all copies of the material unusable. Additionally, any system that requires contact with an authentication server is vulnerable to that server's becoming unavailable, as happened in 2007, when videos purchased from Major League Baseball (mlb.com) prior to 2006, became unplayable due to a change to the servers that validate the licenses.[108] Usability[edit] Discs with DRM schemes are not standards-compliant Compact Discs (CDs) but are rather CD-ROM media. Therefore, they all lack the CD logotype found on discs which follow the standard (known as Red Book). These CDs cannot be played on all CD players or personal computers. Personal computers running Microsoft Windows sometimes even crash when attempting to play the CDs.[109] Performance[edit] DRM is perceived to create performance drawbacks, as games tend to have better performance after the DRM is patched out.[110][111] However, as game developers pointed out in the case of Rime, the impact on performance can be minimised depending on how the DRM system is integrated.[112] In March 2018, PC Gamer tested Final Fantasy 15 for the performance effects of Denuvo, which was found to cause no negative gameplay impact despite a little increase in loading time.[113] Fundamental bypass[edit] Always technically breakable[edit] DRM schemes, especially software based ones, can never be wholly secure since the software must include all the information necessary to decrypt the content, such as the decryption keys. An attacker will be able to extract this information, directly decrypt and copy the content, which bypasses the restrictions imposed by a DRM system.[83] Even with the industrial-grade Advanced Access Content System (AACS) for HD DVD and Blu-ray Discs, a process key was published by hackers in December 2006, which enabled unrestricted access to AACS-protected content.[114] After the first keys were revoked, further cracked keys were released.[115] To protect a secret decryption key from the users of the system, some DRM schemes use encrypted media which requires purpose-built hardware to hear or see the content. A common real-world example can be found in commercial direct broadcast satellite television systems such as DirecTV and Malaysia's Astro. The company uses tamper-resistant smart cards to store decryption keys so that they are hidden from the user and the satellite receiver. This appears to ensure that only licensed users with the hardware can access the content. While this in principle can work, it is extremely difficult to build the hardware to protect the secret key against a sufficiently determined adversary. Many such systems have failed in the field. Once the secret key is known, building a version of the hardware that performs no checks is often relatively straightforward. In addition user verification provisions are frequently subject to attack, pirate decryption being among the most frequented ones. Bruce Schneier argues that digital copy prevention is futile: "What the entertainment industry is trying to do is to use technology to contradict that natural law. They want a practical way to make copying hard enough to save their existing business. But they are doomed to fail."[116] He has also described trying to make digital files uncopyable as being like "trying to make water not wet".[117] The creators of StarForce also take this stance, stating that "The purpose of copy protection is not making the game uncrackable – it is impossible."[118] Analog recording[edit] Main article: Analog recording All forms of DRM for audio and visual material (excluding interactive materials, e.g., videogames) are subject to the analog hole, namely that in order for a viewer to play the material, the digital signal must be turned into an analog signal containing light and/or sound for the viewer, and so available to be copied as no DRM is capable of controlling content in this form. In other words, a user could play a purchased audio file while using a separate program to record the sound back into the computer into a DRM-free file format. All DRM to date can therefore be bypassed by recording this signal and digitally storing and distributing it in a non DRM limited form, by anyone who has the technical means of recording the analog stream. Furthermore, the analog hole cannot be overcome without the additional protection of externally imposed restrictions, such as legal regulations, because the vulnerability is inherent to all analog means of transmission.[119] However, the conversion from digital to analog and back is likely to force a loss of quality, particularly when using lossy digital formats. HDCP is an attempt to plug the analog hole, although as of 2009, it was largely ineffective.[120][121] Asus released a soundcard which features a function called "Analog Loopback Transformation" to bypass the restrictions of DRM. This feature allows the user to record DRM-restricted audio via the soundcard's built-in analog I/O connection.[122][123] In order to prevent this exploit, there has been some discussions between copyright holders and manufacturers of electronics capable of playing such content to no longer include analog connectivity in their devices.[citation needed] The movement, dubbed as "Analog Sunset", has seen a steady decline in analog output options on most Blu-ray devices manufactured after 2010.[citation needed] Consumer rights implication[edit] Ownership issue after purchase[edit] DRM opponents argue that the presence of DRM violates existing private property rights and restricts a range of heretofore normal and legal user activities. A DRM component would control a device a user owns (such as a digital audio player) by restricting how it may act with regard to certain content, overriding some of the user's wishes (for example, preventing the user from burning a copyrighted song to CD as part of a compilation or a review). Doctorow has described this possibility as "the right to make up your own copyright laws".[124] An example of this restriction to legal user activities may be seen in Microsoft's Windows Vista operating system in which content using a Protected Media Path is disabled or degraded depending on the DRM scheme's evaluation of whether the hardware and its use are 'secure'.[125] All forms of DRM depend on the DRM-enabled device (e.g., computer, DVD player, TV) imposing restrictions that cannot be disabled or modified by the user. Key issues around DRM such as the right to make personal copies, provisions for persons to lend copies to friends, provisions for service discontinuance, hardware agnosticism, software and operating system agnosticism,[126] contracts for public libraries, and customers' protection against one-side amendments of the contract by the publisher have not been fully addressed. It has also been pointed out that it is entirely unclear whether owners of content with DRM are legally permitted to pass on their property as inheritance to another person.[127] In one instance of DRM that caused a rift with consumers, Amazon.com in July 2009, remotely deleted purchased copies of George Orwell's Animal Farm (1945) and Nineteen Eighty-Four (1949) from customers' Amazon Kindles after providing them a refund for the purchased products.[128] Commentors have described these actions as Orwellian and have compared Amazon to Big Brother from Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four.[129][130][131][132] After Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos issued a public apology, the Free Software Foundation wrote that this was just one more example of the excessive power Amazon has to remotely censor what people read through its software, and called upon Amazon to free its e-book reader and drop DRM.[133] Amazon then revealed the reason behind its deletion: the e-books in question were unauthorized reproductions of Orwell's works, which were not within the public domain and to which the company that published and sold them on Amazon's service had no rights.[134] Compulsory bundled software[edit] In 2005, Sony BMG introduced new DRM technology which installed DRM software on users' computers without clearly notifying the user or requiring confirmation. Among other things, the installed software included a rootkit, which created a severe security vulnerability others could exploit. When the nature of the DRM involved was made public much later, Sony BMG initially minimized the significance of the vulnerabilities its software had created, but was eventually compelled to recall millions of CDs, and released several attempts to patch the surreptitiously included software to at least remove the rootkit. Several class action lawsuits were filed, which were ultimately settled by agreements to provide affected consumers with a cash payout or album downloads free of DRM.[135] Obsolescence[edit] When standards and formats change, it may be difficult to transfer DRM-restricted content to new media, for instance Microsoft's new media player Zune did not support content that uses Microsoft's own PlaysForSure DRM scheme they had previously been selling.[136] Furthermore, when a company undergoes business changes or even bankruptcy, its previous services may become unavailable. Examples include MSN Music,[137] Yahoo! Music Store,[138] Adobe Content Server 3 for Adobe PDF,[139] Acetrax Video on Demand,[140] etc. In the case of planned obsolescence, consumer complaints can be made to regulatory agencies, which may pose scrutiny to company that uses DRM to abuse its market dominance.[citation needed] Selective Enforcement[edit] DRM laws are widely flouted: according to Australia Official Music Chart Survey, copyright infringements from all causes are practised by millions of people.[141] According to the EFF, "in an effort to attract customers, these music services try to obscure the restrictions they impose on you with clever marketing."[142] Economic implication[edit] Lost benefits from massive market share[edit] Jeff Raikes, ex-president of the Microsoft Business Division, stated: "If they're going to pirate somebody, we want it to be us rather than somebody else".[143] An analogous argument was made in an early paper by Kathleen Conner and Richard Rummelt.[144] A subsequent study of digital rights management for e-books by Gal Oestreicher-Singer and Arun Sundararajan showed that relaxing some forms of DRM can be beneficial to digital rights holders because the losses from piracy are outweighed by the increases in value to legal buyers.[145] Also, free distribution, even if unauthorized, can be beneficial to small or new content providers by spreading and popularizing content. With a larger consumer base by sharing and word of mouth, the number of paying customers also increases, resulting in more profits. Several musicians[who?] have grown to popularity by posting their music videos on sites like YouTube where the content is free to listen to. This method of putting the product out in the world free of DRM not only generates a greater following but also fuels greater revenue through other merchandise (hats, T-shirts), concert tickets, and of course, more sales of the content to paying consumers. Push away legitimate customer[edit] While the main intent of DRM is to prevent unauthorized copies of a product, there are mathematical models that suggest that DRM schemes can fail to do their job on multiple levels.[146] The biggest failure is the burden that DRM poses on a legitimate customer will reduce the customer's willingness to pay for the product. An ideal DRM would be one which imposes zero restrictions on legal buyers but imposes restrictions on copyright infringers. In January 2007, EMI stopped publishing audio CDs with DRM, stating that "the costs of DRM do not measure up to the results."[147] In March, Musicload.de, one of Europe's largest internet music retailers, announced their position strongly against DRM. In an open letter, Musicload stated that three out of every four calls to their customer support phone service are as a result of consumer frustration with DRM.[148] The mathematical models are strictly applied to the music industry (music CDs, downloadable music). These models could be extended to the other industries such as the gaming industry which show similarities to the music industry model. There are real instances when DRM restrain consumers in the gaming industry. Some DRM games are required to connect to the Internet in order to play them.[149] Good Old Games' head of public relations and marketing, Trevor Longino, in agreement with this, believes that using DRM is less effective than improving a game's value in reducing video game infringement.[150] However, TorrentFreak published a "Top 10 pirated games of 2008" list which shows that intrusive DRM is not the main reason why some games are copied more heavily than others. Popular games such as BioShock, Crysis Warhead, and Mass Effect which use intrusive DRM are strangely absent from the list.[27] Anti-competition practice[edit] This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (June 2019) The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) and the Free Software Foundation (FSF) consider the use of DRM systems to be an anti-competitive practice.[151] Alternatives[edit] Several business models have been proposed that offer an alternative to the use of DRM by content providers and rights holders.[152] "Easy and cheap"[edit] The first business model that dissuades illegal file sharing is to make downloading digital media easy and cheap. The use of noncommercial sites makes downloading digital media complex. For example, misspelling an artist's name in a search query will often fail to return a result, and some sites limit internet traffic, which can make downloading media a long and frustrating process. Furthermore, illegal file sharing websites are often host to viruses and malware which attach themselves to the files (see torrent poisoning).[153] If digital media (for example, songs) are all provided on accessible, legitimate sites, and are reasonably priced, consumers will purchase media legally to overcome these frustrations.[152] Comedian Louis C.K. made headlines in 2011, with the release of his concert film Live at the Beacon Theater as an inexpensive (US$5), DRM-free download. The only attempt to deter unlicensed copies was a letter emphasizing the lack of corporate involvement and direct relationship between artist and viewer. The film was a commercial success, turning a profit within 12 hours of its release. Some, including the artist himself, have suggested that file sharing rates were lower than normal as a result, making the release an important case study for the digital marketplace.[154][155][156] Webcomic Diesel Sweeties released a DRM-free PDF e-book on author R Stevens's 35th birthday,[157][158][159] leading to more than 140,000 downloads in the first month, according to Stevens.[160] He followed this with a DRM-free iBook specifically for the iPad, using Apple's new software,[161] which generated more than 10,000 downloads in three days.[162] That led Stevens to launch a Kickstarter project – "ebook stravaganza 3000" – to fund the conversion of 3,000 comics, written over 12 years, into a single "humongous" e-book to be released both for free and through the iBookstore; launched 8 February 2012, with the goal of raising $3,000 in 30 days, the project met its goal in 45 minutes, and went on to be funded at more than 10 times its original goal.[163] The "payment optional" DRM-free model in this case was adopted on Stevens' view that "there is a class of webcomics reader who would prefer to read in large chunks and, even better, would be willing to spend a little money on it."[162] Crowdfunding or pre-order model[edit] In February 2012, Double Fine asked for an upcoming video game, Double Fine Adventure, for crowdfunding on kickstarter.com and offered the game DRM-free for backers. This project exceeded its original goal of $400,000 in 45 days, raising in excess of $2 million.[164][165] In this case DRM freedom was offered to backers as an incentive for supporting the project before release, with the consumer and community support and media attention from the highly successful Kickstarter drive counterbalancing any loss through file sharing.[citation needed] Also, crowdfunding with the product itself as benefit for the supporters can be seen as pre-order or subscription business model in which one motivation for DRM, the uncertainty if a product will have enough paying customers to outweigh the development costs, is eliminated. After the success of Double Fine Adventure, many games were crowd-funded and many of them offered a DRM-free game version for the backers.[166][167][168] Digital content as promotion for traditional products[edit] Many artists are using the Internet to give away music to create awareness and liking to a new upcoming album. The artists release a new song on the internet for free download, which consumers can download. The hope is to have the listeners buy the new album because of the free download.[152] A common practice used today is releasing a song or two on the internet for consumers to indulge. In 2007, Radiohead released an album named "In Rainbows", in which fans could pay any amount they want, or download it for free.[169] Artistic Freedom Voucher[edit] The Artistic Freedom Voucher (AFV) introduced by Dean Baker is a way for consumers to support “creative and artistic work.” In this system, each consumer would have a refundable tax credit of $100 to give to any artist of creative work. To restrict fraud, the artists must register with the government. The voucher prohibits any artist that receives the benefits from copyrighting their material for a certain length of time. Consumers can obtain music for a certain amount of time easily and the consumer decides which artists receive the $100. The money can either be given to one artist or to many, the distribution is up to the consumer.[170] See also[edit] This "see also" section may contain an excessive number of suggestions. Please ensure that only the most relevant links are given, that they are not red links, and that any links are not already in this article. (June 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Related concepts[edit] Closed platform Copyleft Crippleware Digital asset management Floating licensing Genetic use restriction technology Hardware restrictions License manager ODRL Open Music Model Smart contract Smart cow problem Software metering Software protection dongle Trusted Computing Virtual data room Voluntary Collective Licensing XrML Lawsuits[edit] DVD Copy Control Association, Inc. v. Bunner DVD Copy Control Association, Inc. v. Kaleidescape, Inc. RealNetworks, Inc. v. DVD Copy Control Association, Inc. Universal v. Reimerdes Organizations[edit] DigitalEurope – European Information, Communications and Consumer Electronics Technology Industry Associations Free Software Foundation Europe Motion Picture Association of America Open Rights Group Pirate Party, a Swedish political party which is a proponent of free culture and free knowledge Recording Industry Association of America Secure Digital Music Initiative Trusted Computing Group References[edit] ^ a b c "The pros, cons, and future of DRM". Cbc.ca. 7 August 2009. Retrieved 7 January 2012. Digital locks – also known as digital rights management (DRM) technologies or technological protection measures (TPM) ^ Computer Forensics: Investigating Network Intrusions and Cybercrime. Cengage Learning. 16 September 2009. pp. 9–26. ISBN 978-1435483521. ^ "Fact Sheet: Digital Rights Management and have to do: Technical Protection Measures". Priv.gc.ca. 24 November 2006. Archived from the original on 14 April 2016. Retrieved 29 July 2013. ^ "Images and the Internet". ^ Christopher Levy (3 February 2003). "Making Money with Streaming Media". streamingmedia.com. Archived from the original on 14 May 2006. Retrieved 28 August 2006. ^ "DRM". Electronic Frontier Foundation. Retrieved 7 January 2012. ^ "The DRM graveyard: A brief history of digital rights management in music". opensource.com. 3 November 2011. Retrieved 7 January 2012. ^ "Public Law 105 – 304 – Digital Millennium Copyright Act". U. S. Government Publishing Office. U. S. Government Publishing Office. Retrieved 26 July 2015. ^ "Directive 2001/29/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2001 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society". Official Journal of the European Union. 22 June 2001. Retrieved 26 July 2015. ^ "LOI n° 2006-961 du 1er août 2006 relative au droit d'auteur et aux droits voisins dans la société de l'information". Journal officiel de la République française (in French). 3 August 2006. Retrieved 26 July 2015. ^ Patent application 58-186100 (Publication #60-077218), Software Control System, Japan Patent Office, 5 October 1983, Ryoichi Mori, applicant. Reported by Industrial Property Digital Library. ^ "Digital Rights Management Systems and Copy Protection Schemes". eff.org. Archived from the original on 9 February 2011. Retrieved 13 February 2011. ^ Kranich, Nancy. "Chap 1(pg.8)." The Information Commons. Creative Commons, 2004. Print. ^ "QuickPlay Distributes TV Over Mobile Wi-Fi". MediaDaily News. 11 November 2009. Retrieved 28 December 2014. ^ Bobbie Johnson, San Francisco (6 January 2009). "Apple drops copy protection from iTunes". Guardian. Retrieved 6 June 2012. ^ Bode, Karl (3 March 2014). "Keurig Will Use DRM in New Coffee Maker To Lock Out Refill Market". techdirt.com. Retrieved 3 May 2015. ^ Chris Welch (28 August 2014). "Keurig's coffee brewer 'DRM' has already been defeated". ^ Philips pushes lightbulb firmware update that locks out third-party bulbs by Cory Doctorow on Boing Boing (14 December 2015) ^ Light Bulb DRM: Philips Locks Purchasers Out Of Third-Party Bulbs With Firmware Update on techdirt.com (14 December 2015) ^ Another Thing You Need: 'DRM For Chargers' on techdirt.com by Carlo Longino (25 July 2007) ^ Ed Felten (26 July 2007). "DRM for Chargers: Possibly Good for Users". freedom-to-tinker.com. Apple has filed a patent application on a technology for tethering rechargeable devices (like iPods) to particular chargers. The idea is that the device will only allow its batteries to be recharged if it is connected to an authorized charger. Whether this is good for consumers depends on how a device comes to be authorized. If "authorized" just means "sold or licensed by Apple" then consumers won't benefit – the only effect will be to give Apple control of the aftermarket for replacement chargers. ^ hacking-dell-laptop-charger-identification on hackaday.com (3 March 2014) ^ Wiens, Kyle (21 April 2015). "We Can't Let John Deere Destroy the Very Idea of Ownership". Wired. wired.com. Retrieved 3 May 2015. ^ Sydell, Laura (17 August 2015). "DIY Tractor Repair Runs Afoul of Copyright Law". npr.com. Retrieved 31 August 2015. ^ Ernesto (4 December 2008). "Top 10 Most Pirated Games of 2008". TorrentFreak. Retrieved 24 November 2011. ^ Andy Greenberg; Mary Jane Irwin (12 September 2008). "Spore's Piracy Problem". Forbes. Retrieved 22 October 2011. ^ a b Koroush Ghazi (14 December 2008). "PC Game Piracy Examined: Page 4". Tweakguides. Retrieved 24 November 2011. ^ "The Sims 3 Will Not Use DRM: News from". 1UP.com. 29 March 2009. Retrieved 31 August 2010. [permanent dead link] ^ Kuchera, Ben (12 December 2008). "PC Prince of Persia contains no DRM. It's a trap!". Arstechnica.com. Retrieved 31 August 2010. ^ Koroush Ghazi (11 December 2008). "PC Game Piracy Examined: Page 8". Tweakguides. Retrieved 3 December 2012. ^ Ubisoft (9 February 2010). "Ubisoft Press Release". Ubisoft. Retrieved 4 March 2010. ^ Nic Simmonds (4 March 2010). "Ubisoft's contentious DRM scheme already hacked". MyGaming. Retrieved 4 March 2010. ^ Andy Chalk (4 March 2010). "Ubisoft Denies Launch Day Crack for Silent Hunter 5 DRM". Escapist Magazine. Retrieved 27 March 2010. ^ Ben Kuchera (18 February 2010). "Official explanation of controversial Assassin's Creed 2 DRM". Escapist Magazine. Retrieved 27 March 2010. ^ "Ubisoft's DRM for Assassin's Creed II is Cracked". Tomshardware.com. 23 April 2010. Retrieved 31 August 2010. ^ Lowensohn, Josh (21 April 2010). "Ubisoft's controversial 'always on' PC DRM hacked". News.cnet.com. Retrieved 31 August 2010. ^ John Leyden (8 March 2010). "Ubisoft undone by anti-DRM DDoS storm". The Register. Retrieved 27 March 2010. ^ Andre Yoskowitz (8 March 2010). "Ubisoft apologizes to users affected by 'always on' DRM". Afterdawn. Retrieved 27 March 2010. ^ Summer ?Walker (20 March 2013). "SimCity Modder Catches EA Lying". Gamebreaker TV. Archived from the original on 25 March 2013. Retrieved 28 March 2013. ^ "Memorandum Order, in MPAA v. Reimerdes, Corley and Kazan". Electronic Frontier Foundation. New York. 2 February 2000. Archived from the original on 13 December 2016. Retrieved 27 July 2015. ^ "NASCA is a DRM solution..." Retrieved 16 July 2013. ^ TinHat (June 2006). "eBooks and Digital Rights Management (DRM), for ePublishers". tinhat.com. Retrieved 28 May 2008. ^ Braid, Andrew (22 June 2005). "The use of a Digital Rights Management System for Document Supply" (PDF). 71th IFLA General Conference and Council. IFLA World Library and Information Congress. Archived from the original (PDF) on 11 June 2016. ^ "Practical problems for libraries distributing ebooks & secure electronic delivery". LockLizard. 2016. ^ "How to open your on Demand order". British Library. 1 April 2014. ^ "MobileRead Wiki – Topaz". wiki.mobileread.com. ^ Nathan Grayson (17 November 2011). "Interview: Bohemia Interactive's CEO on fighting piracy, creative DRM". pcgamer.com. ^ John Walker (7 December 2011). "Serious Sam's DRM Is A Giant Pink Scorpion". rockpapershotgun.com. Retrieved 9 December 2011. ^ socketboy (8 December 2011). "Serious Sam 3 Non-Traditional DRM Solutions Part 2". ign.com. Archived from the original on 16 February 2012. Retrieved 9 December 2011. ^ Ross J. Anderson (2001). Security Engineering. p. 705. ISBN 0-471-38922-6. ^ "22: Copyright and DRM". Security Engineering. WILEY. ^ Wolf, Patrick; Steinebach, Martin; Diener, Konstantin (27 February 2007). Yagüe, Mariemma (ed.). "Complementing DRM with digital watermarking: mark, search, retrieve". Online Information Review. 31 (1): 10–21. doi:10.1108/14684520710731001. ISSN 1468-4527. ^ "Tunes Plus DRM-free, not free of annoying glitches". Engadget. ^ "Watermarked iTunes files". Macworld. ^ "Who Controls Your Television?". Electronic Frontier Foundation. Archived from the original on 29 January 2008. Retrieved 1 January 2008. ^ Natali Helberger (1 March 2006). "Christophe R. vs Warner Music: French court bans private-copying hostile DRM". INDICARE. Retrieved 31 May 2014. ^ a b c Gerk, David; Dannenberg, Ross (13 May 2009). "Digital age copyright law in Asia: DMCA-type provisions in China and India". Lexology. ^ "European Court of Justice rules on the right to sell your digital games and licenses". PC Gamer. 3 July 2012. Retrieved 8 October 2014. ^ Greg Voakes (3 July 2012). "European Courts Rule in Favor of Consumers Reselling Downloaded Games". Forbes. Retrieved 8 October 2014. ^ "Europe's Highest Court Says DRM Circumvention May Be Lawful in Certain Circumstances". Techdirt. Retrieved 8 October 2014. ^ "DRM Circumvention May Be Legal, European Union Court Rules". The Escapist. 23 January 2014. Retrieved 8 October 2014. ^ Seemantani Sharma, ‘India, RCEP and the WIPO Internet Treaties: Time For a Rethink’ (The Diplomat, 16 August 2017) <https://thediplomat.com/2017/08/india-rcep-and-the-wipo-internet-treaties-time-for-a-rethink/> accessed 16 May 2018. ^ a b c AGARWAL, DEVIKA AGARWAL & RADHIKA. "Needless pressure to change copyright laws". @businessline. ^ a b c d Zakir Thomas, 'Overview of Changes to Indian Copyright Law' [2012] 17 Journal of Intellectual Property Rights pp 324–334, 332 <available at http://nopr.niscair.res.in/bitstream/123456789/14460/1/JIPR%2017(4)%20324-334.pdf accessed 16 May 2018> ^ a b Arul George Scaria, 'Does India Need Digital Rights Management Provisions or Better Digital Business Management Strategies?' [2012] 17 Journal of Intellectual Property Rights pp. 463–477, 465 <available at: http://nopr.niscair.res.in/bitstream/123456789/14771/1/JIPR%2017%285%29%20463-477.pdf last accessed 16 May 2018> ^ Urs Gasser, 'Legal Frameworks and Technological Protection Measures: Moving towards a Best Practices Model' Research Publication No. 2006-04 at Berkman Klein Center for Internet and Society (Harvard) <available at: https://courses.edx.org/c4x/HarvardX/HLS1.1x/asset/Urs_Gasser.pdf last accessed 17 May 2018> ^ Arul George Scaria, 'Does India Need Digital Rights Management Provisions or Better Digital Business Management Strategies?' [2012] 17 Journal of Intellectual Property Rights pp. 463–477, 464 <available at: http://nopr.niscair.res.in/bitstream/123456789/14771/1/JIPR%2017%285%29%20463-477.pdf last accessed 16 May 2018> ^ "Israel Technology Law Blog – No Digital Rights Management Here". ^ Doctorow, Cory (24 March 2007). "DMCA's author says the DMCA is a failure, blames record industry". Archived from the original on 23 June 2011. Retrieved 12 January 2011. ^ "RIAA challenges SDMI attack" (PDF). 7 January 2002. ^ "Joint Comments of the American Council of the Blind and the American Foundation for the Blind, DOCKET NO. RM 2011-7" (PDF). American Council of the Blind and American Foundation for the Blind. 2011. ^ "W3C Workshop – Digital Rights Management for the Web". W3.org. Retrieved 31 August 2010. ^ "Digital Rights Management". European Committee for Standardization (CEN). Archived from the original on 5 October 2006. ^ "eEurope 2005 Action Plan". European Commission – Information Society – eEurope 2005. 2005. Archived from the original on 20 May 2006. Retrieved 28 June 2018. ^ "The address you requested is obsolete". Europa.eu.int. 23 February 2009. Archived from the original on 22 April 2006. Retrieved 31 August 2010. ^ Walker, John (13 September 2003). "The Digital Imprimatur: How big brother and big media can put the Internet genie back in the bottle". ^ Richard Stallman. "The Right to Read". ^ O'Riordan, Ciaran (16 January 2006). "Transcript of Opening session of first international GPLv3 conference". ^ "Opposing Digital Rights Mismanagement (Or Digital Restrictions Management, as we now call it)?". Retrieved 29 May 2014. ^ David Berlind (18 November 2005). "Sony rootkit: The untold story". ZDNet. Retrieved 20 August 2015. ^ Grassmuck, Volker (2003), "Vom PC zum TC: Trusted Computing und Digital Restrictions Management" (PDF), Trusted Computing, Kommunikation & Recht, Frankfurt am Main: Verlag Recht und Wirtschaft, archived from the original (PDF) on 5 March 2016, retrieved 20 August 2015 ^ Jamali, Hamid R.; Nicholas, David; Rowlands, Ian (2009). "Scholarly e?books: the views of 16,000 academics: Results from the JISC National E?Book Observatory". Aslib Proceedings. Emerald Insight. pp. 33–47. doi:10.1108/00012530910932276. ^ a b Doctorow, Cory (17 June 2004). "Microsoft Research DRM Talk" (PDF). craphound.com. Retrieved 17 August 2007. At the end of the day, all DRM systems share a common vulnerability: they provide their attackers with ciphertext, the cipher and the key. At this point, the secret isn't a secret anymore. ^ "DRM". Electronic Frontier Foundation. Electronic Frontier Foundation. Retrieved 13 January 2016. ^ Pavlik, John (2008). Media in the Digital Age. New York: Columbia University Press. p. 181. ISBN 978-0231142090. ^ "Bill Gates on the Future of DRM". ^ a b "The Attention Economy and the Net". Retrieved 28 July 2008. ^ "FTC Town Hall to Address Digital Rights Management Technologies". Federal Trade Commission. 23 December 2008. Archived from the original on 29 October 2014. ^ "Gabe Newell Says DRM Strategies 'Are Just Dumb'". 2 December 2008. ^ Kain, Eric. "'Witcher 2' Developer: 'We Will Never Use Any DRM Anymore'". Forbes. Retrieved 30 March 2012. ^ Tekla S. Perry (January 2007). "Loser: DVD Copy Protection, Take 2". Spectrum Online. Archived from the original on 8 June 2007. Retrieved 4 May 2007. ^ "Engadget FairUse4WM strips Windows Media DRM!". Retrieved 25 August 2006. ^ Kelty, Christopher M. (1 March 2012). "The disappearing virtual library". Al Jazeera. ^ "Court Orders Shutdown of Libgen, Bookfi, and Sci-Hub". torrentfreak.com. 2 November 2015. Retrieved 5 November 2015. ^ Schiermeier, Quirin (2015). "Pirate research-paper sites play hide-and-seek with publishers". Nature. doi:10.1038/nature.2015.18876. Retrieved 6 December 2015. ^ "Sci-hub, bookfi and libgen resurface after being shut down". TorrentFreak. 21 November 2015. Retrieved 7 January 2016. ^ "Frequently Asked Questions about the GNU Licenses – GNU Project – Free Software Foundation". FSF. 28 July 2010. Retrieved 31 August 2010. ^ "The Campaign to Eliminate DRM". DefectiveByDesign.org. Retrieved 31 August 2010. ^ "Frequently Asked Questions – CcWiki". 9 November 2006. Retrieved 22 November 2006. ^ "Baseline Rights – Creative Commons Wiki". 13 July 2007. Retrieved 23 December 2007. ^ "Apple Unveils Higher Quality DRM-Free Music on the iTunes Store". Retrieved 13 September 2008. [permanent dead link] ^ "Apple hides account info in DRM-free music, too". 30 May 2007. Retrieved 13 September 2008. ^ "Apple announces all music on iTunes to go DRM-free – no word on movies, TV shows, games, audiobooks and applications". 8 January 2009. ^ "Amazon's comixology introduces DRM-free downloads". The Guardian. 25 July 2014. Retrieved 30 July 2014. ^ Caron, Frank (9 September 2008). "First look: GOG revives classic PC games for download age". Ars Technica. Retrieved 27 December 2012. [...] [Good Old Games] focuses on bringing old, time-tested games into the downloadable era with low prices and no DRM. ^ "Tor/Forge E-book Titles to Go DRM-Free". Tor.com. 24 April 2012. Retrieved 24 April 2012. ^ "Guide to DRM-Free Living | Defective by Design". www.defectivebydesign.org. Retrieved 3 August 2015. ^ "MLB Fans Who Bought DRM Videos Get Hosed". slashdot.org. 7 November 2007. Retrieved 8 November 2007. ^ Lewis, Rita (8 January 2008). "What is DRM and Why Should I Care?". Firefox News. Archived from the original on 14 June 2008. Retrieved 10 July 2008. ^ Machkovech, Sam (26 December 2018). "Evidence continues to mount about how bad Denuvo is for PC gaming performance". Ars Technica. Retrieved 26 June 2019. ^ "Denuvo DRM Proven To Hurt Performance Of Games It's Attached To". TheGamer. 29 March 2019. Retrieved 26 June 2019. ^ Orland, Kyle (2 June 2017). "Rime allegedly runs faster with Denuvo DRM stripped out". Ars Technica. Retrieved 26 June 2019. ^ Thoman, Peter "Durante" (9 March 2018). "Tested: Denuvo DRM has no performance impact on Final Fantasy 15". PC Gamer. Retrieved 26 June 2019. ^ Xeni Jardin (28 December 2006). "Report: HD-DVD copy protection defeated". BoingBoing. Retrieved 1 January 2008. ^ Cory Doctorow (30 May 2007). "New AACS processing key leaks onto the net". BoingBoing. Archived from the original on 24 January 2009. ^ The Futility of Digital Copy Prevention Crypto-Gram Newsletter, 15 May 2001 ^ Bruce Schneier (7 September 2005). "Quickest Patch Ever". Wired. Archived from the original on 3 January 2010. ^ "Official words of StarForce on DRM". Retrieved 8 September 2010. ^ Sicker, Douglas, Paul Ohm, and Shannon Gunaji. "The Analog Hole and the Price of Music: An Empirical Study". Journal of Tellecommunications and High Technology. 2006–2007. ^ "MPAA shows how to videorecord a TV set". Retrieved 4 September 2009. ^ Sander, Tomas (26 April 2002). Security and Privacy in Digital Rights Management. ISBN 9783540436775. Retrieved 4 September 2009. ^ "Computex 2007: ASUS Showcases New Generation Audio Card". www.techpowerup.com. 6 June 2007. Retrieved 28 December 2014. ^ "PC Pro Product Reviews Asus Xonar D2". Pcpro.co.uk. 1 August 2007. Retrieved 20 February 2012. ^ DRM Is The Right To Make Up Your Own Copyright Laws – Mike Masnick, Techdirt, 6 February 2014 ^ "What Content Will Be Crippled When Output in Vista?". Archived from the original on 6 October 2010. Retrieved 8 September 2010. ^ "Why is Netflix ignoring Linux?". Retrieved 8 September 2010. ^ Why the Kindle's DRM is anti-elderly: AARP should fight against it Archived 3 May 2009 at the Wayback Machine, 26 February 2009 ^ Stone, Brad (18 July 2009). "Amazon Erases Orwell Books From Kindle Devices". New York Times. Retrieved 1 May 2010. ^ David Pogue (17 July 2009). "Some E-Books Are More Equal Than Others". New York Times. ^ Pete Cashmore (17 July 2009). "Big Brother: Amazon Remotely Deletes 1984 From Kindles". ^ Mark Frauenfelder (17 July 2009). "Amazon zaps purchased copies of Orwell's 1984 and Animal Farm from Kindles". ^ Ina Fried (17 July 2009). "Amazon recalls (and embodies) Orwell's '1984'". ^ Free Software Foundation (23 July 2009). "Amazon's CEO Jeff Bezos apologizes for Kindle ebook deletion. Free Software Foundation calls upon Amazon to free the ebook reader". ^ "Why Amazon went Big Brother on some Kindle e-books". arstechnica.com. 17 July 2009. ^ McMillan, Robert (23 May 2006). "Settlement Ends Sony Rootkit Case". PC World. Retrieved 8 April 2007. ^ "Zune Won't Play Old DRM Infected Files". slashdot.org. 19 September 2006. Retrieved 19 September 2007. ^ Cheng, Jacqui (22 April 2008). "DRM sucks redux: Microsoft to nuke MSN Music DRM keys". Ars Technica. Retrieved 22 April 2008. ^ Anderson, Nate (24 July 2008). "DRM still sucks: Yahoo Music going dark, taking keys with it". Ars Technica. Retrieved 18 May 2012. ^ "Adobe Content 3 Server Discontinued". Retrieved 22 February 2011. ^ "VOD Service Acetrax Shutting Down, Forcing Customers Through DRM Hoops To Retain Their Purchased Movies". Retrieved 23 May 2013. ^ "Australia Recording industry Association Survey, 2003". Retrieved 5 February 2011. ^ "The Customer Is Always Wrong". Electronic Frontier Foundation. 25 September 2007. Retrieved 6 February 2011. ^ "Microsoft executive: Pirating software? Choose Microsoft!". 13 March 2007. Retrieved 6 February 2011. ^ Conner, Kathleen and Richard Rummelt (1991). "Software Piracy: An Analysis of Protection Strategies". Management Science. 37 (2): 125–139. doi:10.1287/mnsc.37.2.125. JSTOR 2632386. ^ Oestreicher-Singer, Gal and Arun Sundararajan (2004). "Are Digital Rights Valuable? Theory and Evidence from the eBook Industry". Proceedings of the International Conference on Information Systems. ^ Dinah A. Vernik; Devavrat Purohit; Preyas S. Desai (2011). "Music Downloads and the Flip Side of Digital Rights Management" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 7 August 2019. Retrieved 12 July 2012. ^ Marechal, Sander (9 January 2007). "DRM on audio CDs abolished". ^ Ken Fisher (18 March 2007). "Musicload: 75% of customer service problems caused by DRM". Ars Technica. Retrieved 20 March 2007. ^ Sinclair, Brendan. "Ubisoft DRM games to be temporarily unplayable". ^ Dobra, Andrei. "DRM Doesn't Stop Piracy, Game Content Does, Good Old Games Believes". Retrieved 12 July 2012. ^ "FairPlay: Another Anti-competitive Use of DRM". Electronic Frontier Foundation. 25 May 2004. Retrieved 6 September 2012. ^ a b c Committee on Intellectual Property Rights in the Emerging Information Infrastructure, National Research Council. (2000) "The Digital Dilemma: Intellectual Property in the Information Age." 3 May 2011. http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=9601#toc ^ "Surprise, surprise – almost every piracy website features cyber scams". BetaNews. 30 April 2014. Retrieved 8 October 2014. ^ "Louis CK: Live at the Beacon Theater". Buy.louisck.net. 13 December 2011. Retrieved 7 January 2012. ^ Ingram, Mathew (14 December 2011). "What Louis C.K. Knows That Most Media Companies Don't". Businessweek. Retrieved 7 January 2012. ^ chris hannay (6 September 2012). "Why Louis C.K.'s big payday proves the Internet has ethics". The Globe and Mail. Retrieved 7 January 2012. ^ "A New DRM-free Experiment: Diesel Sweeties". news.cnet.com. 17 January 2012. Retrieved 17 February 2012. ^ "Diesel Sweeties Webcomics Ebook". www.dieselsweeties.com. Retrieved 17 February 2012. ^ "Free PDF of the first Diesel Sweeties comic collection". boingboing.net. 17 January 2012. Retrieved 17 February 2012. ^ "Diesel Sweeties eBook-Stravaganza 3000 by Richard Stevens – Kickstarter". Kickstarter.com. Retrieved 20 February 2012. ^ "An Experiment in iBookery". dieselsweeties.com. 23 January 2012. Archived from the original on 7 April 2012. Retrieved 17 February 2012. ^ a b "iBooks Follow-up". dieselsweeties.com. 26 January 2012. Archived from the original on 30 January 2012. Retrieved 17 February 2012. ^ "Diesel Sweeties eBook-Stravaganza 3000". Retrieved 17 February 2012. ^ "Double Fine Adventure". Retrieved 17 February 2012. ^ "Double Fine's adventure game will be DRM free for backers". videogamer.com. 16 February 2012. Retrieved 17 February 2012. ^ drmfree-torment-is-the-most-richly-backed-game-on-kickstarter on theinquirer.net ^ civitas-the-drm-free-alternative-to-simcity-hits-kickstarter on techspot.com ^ Kitaru Kickstarter supporters get DRM-free copy of the game on technologytell.com ^ Monaghan, Angela. (2007). "Radiohead Challenges Labels With Free Album." Web. 10 May 2011. https://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/markets/2816893/Radiohead-challenges-labels-with-free-album.html ^ Baker, Dean. (2003). "The Artistic Freedom Voucher: An Internet Age Alternative to Copyrights." Pg. 2–8. Web. 3 May. 2011. http://www.cepr.net/documents/publications/ip_2003_11.pdf Further reading[edit] Lawrence Lessig's Free Culture, published by Basic Books in 2004, is available for free download in PDF format. The book is a legal and social history of copyright. Lessig is well known, in part, for arguing landmark cases on copyright law. A Professor of Law at Stanford University, Lessig writes for an educated lay audience, including for non-lawyers. He is, for the most part, an opponent of DRM technologies. Rosenblatt, B. et al., Digital Rights Management: Business and Technology, published by M&T Books (John Wiley & Sons) in 2001. An overview of DRM technology, business implications for content publishers, and relationship to U.S. copyright law. Consumer's Guide to DRM, published in 10 languages (Czech, German, Greek, English, Spanish, French, Hungarian, Italian, Polish, Swedish), produced by the INDICARE research and dialogue project Eberhard Becker, Willms Buhse, Dirk Günnewig, Niels Rump: Digital Rights Management – Technological, Economic, Legal and Political Aspects. An 800-page compendium from 60 different authors on DRM. Arun Sundararajan's Managing Digital Piracy: Pricing and Protection uses the following digital rights conjecture, that "digital rights increases the incidence of digital piracy, and that managing digital rights therefore involves restricting the rights of usage that contribute to customer value" to show that creative pricing can be an effective substitute for excessively stringent DRM. Fetscherin, M., Implications of Digital Rights Management on the Demand for Digital Content, provides an excellent view on DRM from a consumers perspective. "Buch- und online Publikationen". dissertation.de. 5 February 1998. Archived from the original on 5 December 2010. Retrieved 31 August 2010. The Pig and the Box, a book with colorful illustrations and having a coloring book version, by 'MCM'. It describes DRM in terms suited to kids, written in reaction to a Canadian entertainment industry copyright education initiative, aimed at children. Present State and Emerging Scenarios of Digital Rights Management Systems – A paper by Marc Fetscherin which provides an overview of the various components of DRM, pro and cons and future outlook of how, where, when such systems might be used. DRM is Like Paying for Ice – Richard Menta article on MP3 Newswire discusses how DRM is implemented in ways to control consumers, but is undermining perceived product value in the process. A Semantic Web Approach to Digital Rights Management – PhD Thesis by Roberto García that tries to address DRM issues using Semantic Web technologies and methodologies. Patricia Akester, "Technological Accommodation of Conflicts between Freedom of Expression and DRM: The First Empirical Assessment" available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1469412 (unveiling, through empirical lines of enquiry, (1) whether certain acts which are permitted by law are being adversely affected by the use of DRM and (2) whether technology can accommodate conflicts between freedom of expression and DRM). External links[edit] Wikiquote has quotations related to: Digital rights management Wikimedia Commons has media related to Digital rights management. BBC News Technology Q&A: What is DRM? Copyright vs Community in the Age of Computer Networks by Richard Stallman Windows Media DRM FAQ at the Wayback Machine (archived 8 December 2010) from Microsoft Microsoft Research DRM talk, by Cory Doctorow iTunes, DRM and competition law by Reckon LLP Digital Rights Management at the Wayback Machine (archived 8 March 2008) from CEN/ISSS (European Committee for Standardization / Information Society Standardization System). Contains a range of possible definitions for DRM from various stakeholders. 30 September 2003 PC Game Piracy Examined Article investigating the effects of DRM and piracy on the video game industry DRM.info Information about DRM by Chaos Computer Club, Defective by design, Electronic Frontier Foundation, Free Software Foundation Europe, and other organisations. DRM Is Failure, by Adam Singer at Future Buzz media marketing v t e Free and open-source software General Alternative terms for free software Comparison of open-source and closed-source software Comparison of source-code-hosting facilities Free software Free software project directories Gratis versus libre Long-term support Open-source software Open-source software development Outline Software packages Audio Bioinformatics Codecs Collaboration Configuration management Device drivers Graphics Wireless Geophysics Health Mathematics Operating systems Programming languages Routing Statistics Television Video games Web applications Content management systems E-commerce Word processors Android apps iOS apps Commercial Trademarked Formerly proprietary Formerly open-source Community Free software movement History Open-source-software movement Organizations Events Licenses AFL Apache APSL Artistic Beerware Boost BSD CC0 CDDL EPL Free Software Foundation GNU GPL GNU LGPL ISC MIT MPL Ms-PL/RL Python Python Software Foundation License Sleepycat Unlicense WTFPL zlib Types and standards Comparison of free and open-source software licenses Contributor License Agreement Copyleft Debian Free Software Guidelines Definition of Free Cultural Works Free license The Free Software Definition The Open Source Definition Open-source license Permissive software license Public domain Viral license Challenges Digital rights management Firmware security Hardware restrictions License proliferation Mozilla software rebranding Proprietary device drivers Proprietary firmware Proprietary software SCO/Linux controversies Secure boot Software patents Software security Trusted Computing Related topics Forking GNU Manifesto Microsoft Open Specification Promise Open-core model Open-source hardware Shared Source Initiative Source-available software The Cathedral and the Bazaar Revolution OS Free and open-source software portal Category Book v t e Intellectual property activism Issues Artificial scarcity Copyright infringement Copyright troll Digital rights management Gripe site Legal aspects of file sharing Mashup digital music videos Monopolies of knowledge Music piracy Orphan works Patents biological software software patent debate trolling Public domain Concepts All rights reversed Alternative compensation system Anti-copyright notice Business models for open-source software Copyleft Commercial use of copyleft works Commons-based peer production Electronic sell-through Free content Free software license Libertarian positions Open content Open-design movement Open Music Model Open patent Open-source Open-source hardware Open-source software Prize system contests Share-alike Video on demand Movements Access to Knowledge movement Anti-copyright Cultural environmentalism Free-culture movement Free software movement Organizations Pro-copyright Copyright Alliance Pro-copyleft Creative Commons Electronic Frontier Foundation Free Software Foundation Open Rights Group Organization for Transformative Works The Pirate Bay Piratbyrån Pirate Party Public Knowledge Sci-Hub Students for Free Culture People Cory Doctorow Alexandra Elbakyan Rick Falkvinge Lawrence Lessig Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Documentaries Steal This Film (2006, 2007) Good Copy Bad Copy (2007) RiP!: A Remix Manifesto (2008) TPB AFK: The Pirate Bay Away From Keyboard (2013) The Internet's Own Boy (2014) v t e Broadcast encryption and digital rights management Conditional access CableCARD Conditional access system Renewable security DVB Common Interface CSA Conditional-access module DVB-CPCM FTV Syndication Smart cards and encryption BISS Cisco Videoscape Conax Cryptoworks Digicipher HDCP KeyFly Nagravision PowerVu RAS SECA Mediaguard Viaccess VideoGuard Digital video disc Content Scramble System (CSS) Advanced Access Content System (AACS) BD+ DRM Authorized domain B-CAS Broadcast flag Hardware restriction Data security Card sharing FTA Pirate decryption Analogue broadcast encoding EuroCrypt Videocipher VideoCrypt See also free-to-view and pay television Authority control GND: 4774276-8 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Digital_rights_management&oldid=946249128" Categories: Copyright law Cryptography law Digital rights management Television terminology Hidden categories: CS1 French-language sources (fr) All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from July 2019 Articles with permanently dead external links Articles with dead external links from February 2020 Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Articles needing cleanup from January 2017 All pages needing cleanup Use dmy dates from July 2017 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from October 2017 Articles with unsourced statements from June 2017 Articles needing additional references from May 2014 All articles needing additional references Articles with limited geographic scope from November 2012 Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2006 All articles containing potentially dated statements Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2019 All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from March 2010 All articles with vague or ambiguous time Vague or ambiguous time from June 2019 Articles with unsourced statements from June 2016 Articles with unsourced statements from June 2019 Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from January 2019 Articles to be expanded from June 2019 All articles to be expanded Articles using small message boxes Articles with unsourced statements from June 2013 Articles with excessive see also sections from June 2016 Commons category link from Wikidata Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiquote Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? ????????? Brezhoneg Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français Galego ??? Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano ????? Kurdî Magyar Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Român? ??????? Simple English Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina Suomi Svenska ????? ??? Türkçe ?????????? ???? ?? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 19 March 2020, at 00:48 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Levi@Joseph.org
