Dutch Low Saxon Wikipedia - Wikipedia Dutch Low Saxon Wikipedia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article may be expanded with text translated from the corresponding article in Dutch. (August 2012) Click [show] for important translation instructions. Machine translation like DeepL or Google Translate is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary Content in this edit is translated from the existing Dutch Wikipedia article at [[:nl:]]; see its history for attribution. You should also add the template {{Translated page}} to the talk page. For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation. Dutch Low Saxon Wikipedia Type of site Internet encyclopedia project Available in Dutch Low Saxon Headquarters Miami, Florida Owner Wikimedia Foundation Created by Dutch Low Saxon wiki community URL nds-nl.wikipedia.org Commercial No Registration Optional The Neadersassiske Wikipedia, the Dutch Low Saxon edition of Wikipedia, was started on 24 March 2006. It collects articles written in any Low German dialect indigenous to the Netherlands, as well as dialects from the border region, which are rendered in Dutch-based spelling. As of March 2020, this edition has about 6,900 articles. Among other features, there are spoken articles, "showcased" articles and provincial portals. The Dutch Low Saxon Wikipedia has been cited in the Dutch press, and Low Saxon institutes in the Netherlands have noted it and contributed to it.[1][2][3] Contents 1 Characteristics 2 History 3 Accommodation of the various dialects 4 References 5 External links Characteristics[edit] Dutch Low Saxon has traditionally been an oral set of dialects exclusively, with a modest literary tradition existing since the 19th century. Given that the vast majority of speakers never write in the language, the fairly sizeable number of speakers is not a good indicator of the potential for attracting contributors to the Dutch Low Saxon Wikipedia. A handful of contributors, with little variation over the years, has sustained this edition of Wikipedia since its inception, also staying on top of the vandalism which, although low-key, occurs with some regularity. Many of the articles, for instance on Dutch Low Saxon writers, do not exist on any other edition of Wikipedia. Existing illustrations on Wikimedia Commons are usually linked to illustrate articles. According to the list of Wikipedias, the Dutch Low Saxon Wikipedia has a relatively large number of edits and images and above-average article depth for Wikipedias that have between 1,000 and 9,999 articles (depth of 23 compared to a mode of 8, a median of 11 and a mean of 18).[4] History[edit] The Dutch Low Saxon Wikipedia was preceded by three years by a Low German (Plattdüütsch) one.[5] The Low German dialects (which are not standardised) stretch from all of Northern Germany to the Northeast Netherlands. In practice, however, the Plattdüütsch Wikipedia was a German undertaking, following German-based spelling conventions. This spelling, combined with the growing divide since modern times between Dutch and German plat(t) due to the influence of the Dutch and German standard languages respectively, left a gap to be filled. The eventual creation of a Dutch Low Saxon Wikipedia was delayed for many months due to discussion on whether this collection of dialects – recognised and protected by the Dutch government in the framework of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages – merited their own Wikipedia. Proponents made the case that the Dutch varieties are too different from the German ones – at least in writing – to be gathered under the same roof. Some vocal opposition centred on the question of whether the often rather distinct Low Saxon dialects spoken in the Netherlands could be taken as a whole and accommodated within one Wikipedia. The same countrywide grouping, however, had been opted for in the case of the Plattdüütsch Wikipedia.[6] Throughout its existence, the number of structural contributors to the Dutch Low Saxon Wikipedia has remained low, about three to five such users being active in any given period. Most of the structural contributors have administrator rights. The scarcity of committed writers has remained characteristic in spite of several attempts to boost their number, for instance through appeals on radio shows to which individual contributors have been invited. The frequency of vandalism - creation of nonsense articles, removal of content, disparaging remarks - has varied, it sometimes being a daily occurrence and at other times occurring little. Vandalism is normally remedied within the day, often within hours or minutes. Accommodation of the various dialects[edit] Once created, the Dutch Low Saxon Wikipedia took off well, with arrangements being made to accommodate the dialect subgroups and their different spelling conventions (there are several established spelling systems[7]). Each contributor can write in their own dialect, categorizing an article in accordance with the dialect used. If the article is a stub, another contributor can expand it and bring it in line with their own dialect. If the article is longer, a further contributor using a different dialect will ask for their alterations to be rendered into the original dialect. Another feature is that many articles on animals, plants, objects and activities include an overview of what is often a plethora of local names, differing per region and even per village. References[edit] ^ Article from the regional Dutch newspaper de Stentor (Dutch) ^ Article from the Stellingwarfs foundation Stellingwerfs Eigen (pdf, Low Saxon) Archived 2008-02-16 at the Wayback Machine ^ Mention by the Drèents foundation Drentse Taol (Low Saxon) Archived 2007-10-09 at the Wayback Machine ^ List of Wikipedias (retrieved 26 October 2007) ^ The Plattdüütsch Wikipedia, started in April 2003 (Low Saxon) ^ Requests for new languages/Wikipedia Dutch Low Saxon ^ For instance the Drentse spelling, approved by the Provincial States of Drenthe. Several other spelling systems are backed by regional institutions which often subsidise publications in Low Saxon. External links[edit] Low Saxon edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Dutch Low Saxon) Dutch Low Saxon Wikipedia (Dutch Low Saxon) Dutch Low Saxon Wikipedia mobile version (Homepage not yet configured) v t e List of Wikipedias by article count 6,000,000+ English 5,000,000+ Cebuano 3,000,000+ Swedish 2,000,000+ German French Dutch 1,000,000+ Russian Italian Spanish Polish Waray Vietnamese Japanese Chinese Arabic Portuguese Ukrainian 500,000+ Persian Catalan Serbian Norwegian (bokmål/riksmål) Indonesian 200,000+ Korean Finnish Hungarian Serbo-Croatian Czech Romanian Basque Turkish Malay Esperanto Armenian Bulgarian Hebrew Danish Chechen Southern Min Slovak Kazakh Minangkabau Croatian Estonian 100,000+ Lithuanian Belarusian Greek Southern Azerbaijani Slovene Galician Azerbaijani Simple English Norwegian (nynorsk) Urdu Hindi Thai Georgian Uzbek Latin Tamil Volapük Egyptian Arabic Welsh Macedonian Tajik Latvian Asturian 50,000+ Malagasy Occitan Tagalog Tatar Afrikaans Kyrgyz Bosnian Albanian Newar Cantonese Telugu Bengali Belarusian (Taraškievica) Breton Piedmontese Malayalam Javanese Luxembourgish Haitian Scots Marathi Swahili Irish Low Saxon Bashkir Silesian 20,000+ Western Punjabi Icelandic Chuvash West Frisian Sundanese Burmese Lombard Aragonese Yoruba Nepali Punjabi Gujarati Ido Bavarian Sicilian Bishnupriya Manipuri Alemannic Kurdish (Kurmanji) Kannada Kurdish (Sorani) Venetian Interlingua Quechua 10,000+ Acehnese Amharic Buginese Classical Chinese Eastern Min Faroese Mongolian Neapolitan Samogitian Scottish Gaelic Sinhalese Walloon Odia Yiddish Banyumasan Upper Sorbian Mazandarani Maithili Megrelian Limburgish Wu Sakha Sanskrit Ilokano Ossetian Hill Mari Emilian-Romagnol Sindhi Meadow Mari Pashto Zazaki Hakka Navajo Central Bicolano North Frisian 5,000+ Fiji Hindi Tarantino Kapampangan Northern Sotho Northern Sami Maori Shan Nahuatl Dutch Low Saxon Rusyn Khmer Bihari West Flemish Gan Crimean Tatar Tibetan Sardinian Vepsian Somali Gilaki Corsican Turkmen Võro Northern Luri Komi Erzya Kashubian 2,000+ Abkhazian Assamese Aymara Balinese Interlingue Manx Norman Saterland Frisian Udmurt Uyghur Zeelandic Lezgian Shona Cornish Ladino Picard Mirandese Konkani Romansh Guarani Komi-Permyak Ligurian Maltese Gorontalo Friulian Lower Sorbian Franco-Provençal Lingala Anglo-Saxon Divehi Chavacano Extremaduran Doteli Lao Kabyle Ripuarian Gagauz Lingua Franca Nova Hawaiian Livvi-Karelian Pangasinan Pali Avar Buryat Palatinate German Kalmyk Karachay-Balkar Banjar Hausa Santali 1,000+ Tulu Papiamentu Karakalpak Zhuang Pennsylvania German Kinyarwanda Tongan Novial Greenlandic Aramaic Jamaican Kabardian Tuvan Tok Pisin Tetum Kabiye Kikuyu Nauruan Igbo Bislama Aromanian Lak Lojban Tahitian Moksha Kongo Luganda Wolof Sranan Zulu 500+ Cherokee Latgalian Samoan Ingush Oromo Xhosa Norfolk Romani Old Church Slavonic Bambara Tswana Kirundi Cheyenne Twi Atikamekw Tumbuka Tsonga Sesotho Gothic Akan 200+ Chamorro Pontic Swati Fijian Adyghe Inuktitut Chichewa Ewe Kashmiri Inupiak Venda Sango Fula Dzongkha 100+ Tigrinya Cree 10+ Dinka 0+ Ndonga Choctaw Kuanyama Marshallese Hiri Motu Sichuan Yi Afar Muscogee Herero Kanuri Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Dutch_Low_Saxon_Wikipedia&oldid=940252023" Categories: Wikipedias by language Internet properties established in 2006 Dutch encyclopedias Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles to be expanded from August 2012 All articles to be expanded Articles needing translation from Dutch Wikipedia Pages using deprecated image syntax Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? ??????? ????? Euskara ????? Français ??? ?????? ???? ?????? ?????????? Nederlands Nedersaksies Português Simple English ??? Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t Edit links This page was last edited on 11 February 2020, at 12:15 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Frank@Harold.gov.ca
