Edit-a-thon - Wikipedia Edit-a-thon From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Term to describe a wiki's in-person editing collaboration on a specific topic For details of Wikipedia edit-a-thons, see Wikipedia:How to run an edit-a-thon. The 72 horas con Rodin edit-a-thon in Mexico City is the longest ever held, recognized by Guinness World Records. Attendees at the 2013 Women in the Arts Edit-a-thon in Washington, DC An edit-a-thon in São Paulo, Brazil, aimed at creating and improving Wikipedia articles relating to feminism, women's rights and notable women AfroCrowd Manager Sherry Antoine explaining edit-a-thons An edit-a-thon (sometimes written editathon) is an organized event where editors of online communities such as Wikipedia, OpenStreetMap, and LocalWiki edit and improve a specific topic or type of content, typically including basic editing training for new editors. They often involve meetups, but can be distributed as well. The word is a portmanteau of "edit" and "marathon". Wikipedia edit-a-thons have taken place at Wikimedia chapter headquarters; accredited educational institutions, including Sonoma State University, Arizona State University, Middlebury College,[1] and the University of Victoria; scientific research institutions such as the Salk Institute for Biological Sciences[2]; and cultural institutions, such as museums or archives. The events have included topics such as cultural heritage sites, museum collections, women's history, art, feminism, narrowing Wikipedia's gender gap, and social justice issues.[3][4][5][6][7][8] Women, African Americans, and members of the LGBT community are using edit-a-thons to bridge the gap in Wikipedia's sexual and racial makeup[9] and to challenge the underrepresentation of Africa-related topics.[10] Some have been organised by Wikipedians in residence. The longest edit-a-thon took place at the Museo Soumaya in Mexico City from June 9 to 12, 2016, where Wikimedia Mexico volunteers and museum's staff edited during 72 continuous hours. The record was recognized by Guinness World Records.[11][12] The OpenStreetMap community has also hosted several edit-a-thons.[13][14] In August 2018, Future Climate for Africa and the Climate and Development Knowledge Network convened the first African Wikipedia edit-a-thon on climate change in Cape Town South Africa. Since 2014, Art+Feminism has held world-wide edit-a-thons annually to expand the histories of women, feminism, and arts found on Wikipedia, and to dismantle the biases on how women are represented online. 2019 marks the expansion of the movement to include "gender non-binary activists and artists".[15] See also[edit] Hackathon References[edit] ^ "Feminists Strengthen Wikipedia's Content about Women". Middlebury College. April 18, 2017. Retrieved April 24, 2018. ^ "Wikipedia Edit-a-Thon - September 7, 2019". Salk Institute for Biological Studies. Retrieved 2019-09-09. ^ Lavin, Talia (2016-03-11). "A Feminist Edit-a-Thon Seeks to Reshape Wikipedia". The New Yorker. ISSN 0028-792X. Retrieved 2016-07-30. ^ Content, Sara Boboltz Associate Editor of Viral; Post, The Huffington (2015-04-15). "Editors Are Trying To Fix Wikipedia's Gender And Racial Bias Problem". The Huffington Post. Retrieved 2016-07-30. ^ "Social Justice Wikipedia Edit-a-thon workshop - University of Victoria". www.uvic.ca. Retrieved 2016-07-30. ^ Smith, Michelle R. (16 October 2013). "Female scientists getting their due on Wikipedia". Associated Press. Retrieved 2016-07-30. ^ Katzner, Ben (1 February 2014). "SCSU group participates in edit-a-thon for Wikipedia website". St. Cloud Times. Archived from the original on 2 August 2016. Retrieved 5 February 2014. ^ Koh, Adeline (30 May 2013). "How to Organize Your Own Wikipedia Edit-a-Thon". The Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved 5 February 2014. ^ Reynosa, Peter. "Why Don't More Latinos Contribute to Wikipedia?". El Tecolote. Retrieved December 4, 2015. ^ Wexelbaum, Rachel S., Katie Herzog, and Lane Rasberry. "Queering Wikipedia." (2015). ^ "México ganó un nuevo récord Guinness y seguro te va a ser útil". Dinero en Imagen.com (in Spanish). Retrieved 2016-06-13. ^ Cruz y Corro, Andrés; Fernanda López, María (22 July 2016). "Wikipedia edit-a-thon, 72 hours long, is recognized with a Guinness World Record". Wikimedia Blog. Retrieved 2016-07-30. ^ Villeda, Ian (12 April 2013). "OpenStreetMap #Editathon at MapBox". Retrieved 7 April 2014. ^ Foster, Mike (18 October 2013). "Fall 2013 OpenStreetMap Editathon". Archived from the original on 8 April 2014. Retrieved 7 April 2014.CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status unknown (link) ^ "ART+FEMINISM — Announcing Our Year 6 Campaign: Gender + The..." ART+FEMINISM. Retrieved 2019-03-08. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Wikimedia edit-a-thons. OpenStreetMap 'Mapathons' v t e Wikipedia Overview (Outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing Criticism gender bias ideological bias racial bias Deletionism and inclusionism MediaWiki Notability Reliability Vandalism Predictions of the project's end Community Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Citation needed Edit-a-thon "Ignore all rules" policy List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikipedian in residence WikiConference North America Wikimania WikiProject Women in Red People Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Erik Möller Ira Brad Matetsky Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales Wikipedians Wikimedian of the Year History Bomis Logo Controversies U.S. Congressional staff edits Essjay controversy Seigenthaler biography incident Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Italian Wikipedia blackout English Wikipedia blackout Hillsborough Wikipedia posts MyWikiBiz Lsjbot VisualEditor Art+Feminism #1Lib1Ref Honors 2008 Quadriga award Wikipedia Monument 2015 Erasmus Prize 2015 Princess of Asturias Award References and analysis Cultural Bibliography Films Academic studies Listen to Wikipedia Wiki-Watch Wikipediocracy WikiScanner Wikipedia Review Mobile access Apps QRpedia Wapedia WikiNodes Wikipedia Zero Wikiwand Content use Books LLC Boundless (company) DBpedia Deletionpedia Kiwix WikiReader Science information Health information Similar projects Interpedia Nupedia Citizendium Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Everipedia Veropedia List of online encyclopedias List of wikis Related Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs Print Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) 274301 Wikipedia Viola wikipedia List Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Edit-a-thon&oldid=942853599" Categories: Activism by type OpenStreetMap Wikipedia Hidden categories: CS1 Spanish-language sources (es) CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status unknown Articles with short description Commons category link is on Wikidata Articles containing Spanish-language text Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Meta-Wiki Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Alemannisch ??????? Català ?eština Chi-Chewa Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español ????? Français Gaeilge Galego ??? Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Bahasa Melayu ??? Português Român? ??????? Sloven?ina Svenska ??? ?????? Türkçe ?????????? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 27 February 2020, at 07:35 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
