Electronic sell-through - Wikipedia Electronic sell-through From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Electronic sell-through (EST) is a method of media distribution whereby consumers pay a one-time fee to download a media file for storage on a hard drive.[1] Although EST is often described as a transaction that grants content "ownership" to the consumer, the content may become unusable after a certain period and may not be viewable using competing platforms.[2] EST is used by a wide array of digital media products, including movies, television, music, games, and mobile applications. The term is sometimes used interchangeably with download to own (DTO). Film and television[edit] The film and television industry's $18.8 billion home entertainment market consists of rental and sell-through segments, the latter of which includes the electronic sell-through of digital content.[3] In 2010, EST generated $683 million of total home entertainment revenues,[4] putting it behind the more lucrative revenue streams of cable video-on-demand (VOD) and internet video-on-demand (iVOD), which brought in a combined $1.8 billion in the same period.[3] In 2010, Apple's iTunes Store accounted for three quarters of the U.S. EST business.[5] The rest of the EST market was captured by Microsoft (via its Zune Video platform), Sony, Amazon VOD (now Amazon Video), and Walmart (via its VUDU service). A number of industry trends indicate the future expansion of EST's share of digital distribution revenues. David Bishop, worldwide president of Sony Pictures Home Entertainment, describes the following outlook: “With the launch of UltraViolet (the cloud-based digital copy locker system) establishing a common digital distribution platform later this year, prices potentially coming down on digital sales, more marketing devoted to digital sellthrough, and studios adding more value to the sellthrough product by making HD available and building in smarter extra features, we see the balance tilting even more toward owning and collecting digital movies.”[4] References[edit] ^ Raugust, Karen. "Turning Digital into Dollars." Book Reviews, Bestselling Books & Publishing Business News | Publishers Weekly. Publishers Weekly, 7 Mar. 2011. Web. 29 Mar. 2011. <http://www.publishersweekly.com/pw/by-topic/digital/conferences/article/46373-turning-digital-into-dollars.html>. ^ "Digital Glossary". Home Media Magazine. Quested Media Group, LLC. Archived from the original on March 14, 2012. Retrieved March 30, 2011. ^ a b "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2011-01-24. Retrieved 2011-03-29.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link) ^ a b Prange, Stephanie. "Digital: The New Frontier." Home Media Magazine | Covering DVD News, Blu-ray, High-def and Electronic Sellthrough for Hollywood, Studios and Retailers. Home Media Magazine, 28 Mar. 2011. Web. 29 Mar. 2011. <http://www.homemediamagazine.com/steph-sums-it-up/digital-the-new-frontier Archived 2012-03-14 at the Wayback Machine>. ^ Amel, Arash. "Apple ITunes Remains Dominant in U.S. Online Movies in 2010, Despite Competitors’ Inroads." ISuppli Market Intelligence. IHS, Inc., 7 Feb. 2011. Web. 29 Mar. 2011. <http://www.isuppli.com/Media-Research/News/Pages/Apple-iTunes-Remains-Dominant-in-US-Online-Movies-in-2010-Despite-Competitors-Inroads.aspx>. v t e Intellectual property activism Issues Artificial scarcity Copyright infringement Copyright troll Digital rights management Gripe site Legal aspects of file sharing Mashup digital music videos Monopolies of knowledge Music piracy Orphan works Patents biological software software patent debate trolling Public domain Concepts All rights reversed Alternative compensation system Anti-copyright notice Business models for open-source software Copyleft Commercial use of copyleft works Commons-based peer production Electronic sell-through Free content Free software license Libertarian positions Open content Open-design movement Open Music Model Open patent Open-source Open-source hardware Open-source software Prize system contests Share-alike Video on demand Movements Access to Knowledge movement Anti-copyright Cultural environmentalism Free-culture movement Free software movement Organizations Pro-copyright Copyright Alliance Pro-copyleft Creative Commons Electronic Frontier Foundation Free Software Foundation Open Rights Group Organization for Transformative Works The Pirate Bay Piratbyrån Pirate Party Public Knowledge Sci-Hub Students for Free Culture People Cory Doctorow Alexandra Elbakyan Rick Falkvinge Lawrence Lessig Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Documentaries Steal This Film (2006, 2007) Good Copy Bad Copy (2007) RiP!: A Remix Manifesto (2008) TPB AFK: The Pirate Bay Away From Keyboard (2013) The Internet's Own Boy (2014) Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Electronic_sell-through&oldid=918505686" Categories: Television terminology Film and video technology Internet television Internet broadcasting Streaming Online services Network service New media Hidden categories: CS1 maint: archived copy as title Webarchive template wayback links Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Català Deutsch Français Edit links This page was last edited on 29 September 2019, at 00:37 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Nathan@Moses.com
