Encyclopedia of Life - Wikipedia Encyclopedia of Life From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Free, online collaborative encyclopedia intended to document all living species Encyclopedia of Life Type of site Encyclopedia Available in 18 languages Malay German English Spanish French Galician Dutch Norsk bokmal Occitan Brazilian Portuguese Swedish Tagalog Macedonian Serbian Arabic Chinese(simplified and traditional) Korean Created by Field Museum Harvard University MacArthur Foundation Marine Biological Laboratory Missouri Botanical Garden Sloan Foundation Smithsonian Institution URL eol.org Alexa rank 52,786 (September 2018[update])[1] Commercial No Registration Optional Launched February 26, 2008 (2008-02-26) Current status Active The Encyclopedia of Life (EOL) is a free, online collaborative encyclopedia intended to document all of the 1.9 million living species known to science. It is compiled from existing databases and from contributions by experts and non-experts throughout the world.[2] It aims to build one "infinitely expandable" page for each species, including video, sound, images, graphics, as well as text.[3] In addition, the Encyclopedia incorporates content from the Biodiversity Heritage Library, which digitizes millions of pages of printed literature from the world's major natural history libraries. The project was initially backed by a US$50 million funding commitment, led by the MacArthur Foundation and the Sloan Foundation, who provided US$20 million and US$5 million, respectively. The additional US$25 million came from five cornerstone institutions—the Field Museum, Harvard University, the Marine Biological Laboratory, the Missouri Botanical Garden, and the Smithsonian Institution. The project was initially led by Jim Edwards[4] and the development team by David Patterson. Today, participating institutions and individual donors continue to support EOL through financial contributions. Contents 1 Overview 2 Intention 3 Resources and collaborations 4 See also 5 References 6 External links Overview[edit] EOL went live on 26 February 2008 with 30,000 entries.[5] The site immediately proved to be extremely popular, and temporarily had to revert to demonstration pages for two days when over 11 million views of it were requested. The site relaunched on 5 September 2011 with a redesigned interface and tools. The new version – referred to as EOLv2 – was developed in response to requests from the general public, citizen scientists, educators and professional biologists for a site that was more engaging, accessible and personal. EOLv2 is redesigned to enhance usability and encourage contributions and interactions among users. It is also internationalized with interfaces provided for English, German, Spanish, French, Galician, Serbian, Macedonian, Arabic, Chinese, Korean and Ukrainian language speakers. On 16 January 2014, EOL launched TraitBank, a searchable, open digital repository for organism traits, measurements, interactions and other facts for all taxa.[6] The initiative's Executive Committee includes senior officers from the Atlas of Living Australia, the Biodiversity Heritage Library consortium, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, CONABIO, Field Museum, Harvard University, the Bibliotheca Alexandrina (Library of Alexandria), MacArthur Foundation, Marine Biological Laboratory, Missouri Botanical Garden, Sloan Foundation, and the Smithsonian Institution.[7] Intention[edit] Information about many species is already available from a variety of sources, in particular about the megafauna. Gathering currently available data on all 1.9 million species will take about 10 years.[8] As of September 2011[update], EOL had information on more than 700,000 species available, along with more than 600,000 photos and millions of pages of scanned literature. The initiative relies on indexing information compiled by other efforts, including the Sp2000 and ITIS Catalogue of Life, Fishbase and the Assembling Tree of Life project of NSF, AmphibiaWeb, Mushroom explorer, microscope, etc. The initial focus has been on living species but will later include extinct species. As the discovery of new species is expected to continue (currently at about 20,000 per year), the encyclopedia will continue to grow. As taxonomy finds new ways to include species discovered by molecular techniques, the rate of new additions will increase, particularly in respect to the microbial work of (eu)bacteria, archaebacteria and viruses. EOL's goal is to serve as a resource for the general public, enthusiastic amateurs, educators, students and professional scientists from around the world.[2] Resources and collaborations[edit] The Encyclopedia of Life has content partners around the world who share information through the EOL platform, including Wikipedia and Flickr. Its interface is translated at translatewiki.net. See also[edit] Biology portal Evolutionary biology portal All Species Foundation Biodiversity Heritage Library List of online encyclopedias Wikispecies References[edit] ^ "Eol.org Site Info". Alexa Internet. Retrieved 2016-09-02. ^ a b "EOL History". Eol.org. 2012-02-28. Retrieved 2012-03-23. ^ Odling-Smee, Lucy. "Encyclopedia of Life launched". Retrieved 2007-05-09. ^ "James Edwards - Encyclopedia of Life". Eol.org. Retrieved 2015-11-21. ^ Zimmer, Carl (2008-02-26). "The Encyclopedia of Life, No Bookshelf Required". The New York Times. Retrieved 2008-02-27. ^ "TraitBank: Practical semantics for organism attribute data". Semantic-web-journal.net. 2014-03-28. Retrieved 2015-11-21. ^ "Scientists compile 'book of life'". BBC News. 2007-05-09. Retrieved 2007-05-09. ^ "Encyclopédie de la vie: Une arche de Noé virtuelle!". Radio-Canada. 9 May 2007. Retrieved 2009-05-12. External links[edit] Wikidata has the property: Encyclopedia of Life ID (P830) (see uses) Wikinews has related news: Scientists to bring all species together in Encyclopedia of Life Official website "A Leap for All Life: World's Leading Scientists Announce Creation of Encyclopedia of Life". Encyclopedia of Life. 2007-05-09. The Encyclopedia of Life – Introductory video on YouTube from May 2007. Science portal v t e Taxonbar databases ABA • ADW • AFD • AfroMoths • AlgaeBase • AmphibiaWeb • AntWeb • AoI • AoFP • APA • APDB • APNI • APSA • Araneae • ARKive • ASW • ATRF • Avibase • BacDive • BAMONA • BHL • BioLib • BirdLife • BirdLife-Australia • BOLD • BTO • BugGuide • ButMoth • Calflora • Cal-IPC • Center • CMS • CNPS • Cockroach Species File • Conifers.org • Coreoidea Species File • eBird • Ecocrop • ECOS • eFloraSA • EoL • EPPO • EUNIS • Euring • Fauna Europaea • Fauna Europaea (new) • FEIS • FishBase • FloraBase • FLOW • FNA • FoAO • FoAO2 • FoC • FoIO • Fossilworks • Fungorum • GBIF • GISD • GNAB • GONIAT • GrassBase • GRIN • IBC • ICTV • iNaturalist • IPA • IPNI • IRMNG • ISC • ITIS • IUCN • LepIndex • LoB • LPSN • Mantodea Species File • MichiganFlora • MoBotPF • MoL • MNHN • MONA • MSW • MycoBank • NAS • NBN • NCBI • Neotropical • NOAA • NSWFlora • NTFlora • NZBO • NZOR • NZPCN • ODNR • Orthoptera Species File • PalDat • Panartic Flora • PfaF • PFI • Phasmida Species File • PPE • Plant List • PLANTS • Plazi • POWO • RD • SANBI • SCC • SeaLifeBase • SEINet • Species+ • SPRAT • Steere • Tree of Life • Tropicos • TSA • uBio • VASCAN • VicFlora • Watson & Dallwitz • WCSP • WiO • WisFlora • WoI • WoRMS • WSC • Xeno-canto • ZooBank • eMonocot • World Spider Catalog Authority control ISNI: 0000 0004 0499 7215 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Encyclopedia_of_Life&oldid=944927204" Categories: 21st-century encyclopedias American online encyclopedias Arabic-language encyclopedias Biodiversity databases Biological literature Biology websites Chinese encyclopedias Encyclopedias of science English-language encyclopedias Online encyclopedias French encyclopedias German-language encyclopedias Internet properties established in 2008 Korean encyclopedias Missouri Botanical Garden Multilingual websites Phylogenetics Serbian-language encyclopedias Spanish encyclopedias Taxonomy (biology) Zoological nomenclature Hidden categories: Articles with short description Articles containing potentially dated statements from September 2018 All articles containing potentially dated statements Articles containing potentially dated statements from September 2011 Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans ??????? Az?rbaycanca ????? ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)? ????????? Català Deutsch Eesti Español ????? Français Galego ???????? ??? ??????? Ilokano Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? Latviešu Magyar ?????????? ?????? Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål Polski Português Român? ??????? Scots Slovenš?ina ?????? / srpski Suomi Svenska Türkçe Türkmençe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 10 March 2020, at 19:21 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
