Fact - Wikipedia Fact From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Statement that is consistent with reality or can be proven with evidence Not to be confused with de facto. For other uses, see Fact (disambiguation). A fact is a thing that is known to be consistent with objective reality and can be proven to be true with evidence. For example, "This sentence contains words." is a linguistic fact, and "The sun is a star." is a cosmological fact. Further, "Abraham Lincoln was the 16th President of the United States." and "Abraham Lincoln was assassinated." are also both facts, of history. All of these statements have the epistemic quality of being "ontologically superior" to opinion or interpretation — they are either categorically necessary or supported by adequate documentation. Conversely, while it may be both consistent and true that "most cats are cute", it is not a fact (although in cases of opinion there is an argument for the acceptance of popular opinion as a statement of common wisdom, particularly if ascertained by scientific polling). Generally speaking, facts transcend belief and serve as concrete descriptions of a state of affairs on which beliefs can later be assigned. The usual test for a statement of fact is verifiability — that is whether it can be demonstrated to correspond to experience. Standard reference works are often used to check facts. Scientific facts are verified by repeatable careful observation or measurement by experiments or other means. Contents 1 Etymology and usage 2 In philosophy 2.1 Correspondence and the slingshot argument 2.2 Compound facts 2.3 Fact–value distinction 2.4 Factual–counterfactual distinction 3 In mathematics 4 In science 4.1 The scientific method 5 In history 6 In law 6.1 Legal pleadings 7 See also 8 References 9 External links Etymology and usage[edit] The word "fact" derives from the Latin factum, and was first used in English with the same meaning: a thing done or performed a meaning now obsolete.[1] The common usage of "something that has really occurred or is the case" dates from the middle of the sixteenth century.[2] Fact is sometimes used synonymously with truth, as distinct from opinions, falsehoods, or matters of taste. This use is found in such phrases as, "It is a fact that the cup is blue" or "Matter of fact",[3] and "... not history, nor fact, but imagination." Filmmaker Werner Herzog distinguishes between the two, claiming that "Fact creates norms, and truth illumination."[4] Fact also indicates a matter under discussion deemed to be true or correct, such as to emphasize a point or prove a disputed issue; (e.g., "... the fact of the matter is ...").[5][6] Alternatively, fact may also indicate an allegation or stipulation of something that may or may not be a true fact,[7] (e.g., "the author's facts are not trustworthy"). This alternate usage, although contested by some, has a long history in standard English.[8] Fact may also indicate findings derived through a process of evaluation, including review of testimony, direct observation, or otherwise; as distinguishable from matters of inference or speculation.[9] This use is reflected in the terms "fact-find" and "fact-finder" (e.g., "set up a fact-finding commission").[10] Facts may be checked by reason, experiment, personal experience, or may be argued from authority. Roger Bacon wrote "If in other sciences we should arrive at certainty without doubt and truth without error, it behooves us to place the foundations of knowledge in mathematics."[11] In philosophy[edit] In philosophy, the concept fact is considered in epistemology and ontology. Questions of objectivity and truth are closely associated with questions of fact. A "fact" can be defined as something that is the case—that is, a state of affairs.[12][13] Facts may be understood as information that makes a true sentence true.[14] Facts may also be understood as those things to which a true sentence refers. The statement "Jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system" is about the fact Jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system.[15] Correspondence and the slingshot argument[edit] Pascal Engel's version of the correspondence theory of truth explains that what makes a sentence true is that it corresponds to a fact.[16] This theory presupposes the existence of an objective world. The Slingshot argument claims to show that all true statements stand for the same thing - the truth value true. If this argument holds, and facts are taken to be what true statements stand for, then we reach the counter-intuitive conclusion that there is only one fact - the truth.[17] Compound facts[edit] Any non-trivial true statement about reality is necessarily an abstraction composed of a complex of objects and properties or relations.[18] For example, the fact described by the true statement "Paris is the capital city of France" implies that there is such a place as Paris, there is such a place as France, there are such things as capital cities, as well as that France has a government, that the government of France has the power to define its capital city, and that the French government has chosen Paris to be the capital, that there is such a thing as a place or a government, and so on. The verifiable accuracy of all of these assertions, if facts themselves, may coincide to create the fact that Paris is the capital of France. Difficulties arise, however, in attempting to identify the constituent parts of negative, modal, disjunctive, or moral facts.[19] Fact–value distinction[edit] Main article: Fact–value distinction Moral philosophers since David Hume have debated whether values are objective, and thus factual. In A Treatise of Human Nature Hume pointed out there is no obvious way for a series of statements about what ought to be the case to be derived from a series of statements of what is the case. Those who insist there is a logical gulf between facts and values, such that it is fallacious to attempt to derive values from facts, include G. E. Moore, who called attempting to do so the naturalistic fallacy. Factual–counterfactual distinction[edit] Main article: Counterfactual conditional Factuality—what has occurred—can also be contrasted with counterfactuality: what might have occurred, but did not. A counterfactual conditional or subjunctive conditional is a conditional (or "if-then") statement indicating what would be the case if events had been other than they were. For example, "If Alexander had lived, his empire would have been greater than Rome." This contrasts with an indicative conditional, which indicates what is (in fact) the case if its antecedent is (in fact) true—for example, "If you drink this, it will make you well." Such sentences are important to modal logic, especially since the development of possible world semantics. In mathematics[edit] In mathematics, a fact is a statement (called a theorem} that can be proven by logical argument from certain axioms and definitions. In science[edit] Further information: scientific method and philosophy of science In science, a fact is a repeatable careful observation or measurement (by experimentation or other means), also called empirical evidence. Facts are central to building scientific theories. Various forms of observation and measurement lead to fundamental questions about the scientific method, and the scope and validity of scientific reasoning. In the most basic sense, a scientific fact is an objective and verifiable observation, in contrast with a hypothesis or theory, which is intended to explain or interpret facts.[20] Various scholars have offered significant refinements to this basic formulation. Scientists are careful to distinguish between: 1) states of affairs in the external world and 2) assertions of fact that may be considered relevant in scientific analysis. The term is used in both senses in the philosophy of science.[21] Scholars and clinical researchers in both the social and natural sciences have written about numerous questions and theories that arise in the attempt to clarify the fundamental nature of scientific fact.[22] Pertinent issues raised by this inquiry include: the process by which "established fact" becomes recognized and accepted as such;[23] whether and to what extent "fact" and "theoretic explanation" can be considered truly independent and separable from one another;[24][25] to what extent "facts" are influenced by the mere act of observation;[25] and to what extent factual conclusions are influenced by history and consensus, rather than a strictly systematic methodology.[26] Consistent with the idea of confirmation holism, some scholars assert "fact" to be necessarily "theory-laden" to some degree. Thomas Kuhn points out that knowing what facts to measure, and how to measure them, requires the use of other theories. For example, the age of fossils is based on radiometric dating, which is justified by reasoning that radioactive decay follows a Poisson process rather than a Bernoulli process. Similarly, Percy Williams Bridgman is credited with the methodological position known as operationalism, which asserts that all observations are not only influenced, but necessarily defined by the means and assumptions used to measure them. The scientific method[edit] Apart from the fundamental inquiry into the nature of scientific fact, there remain the practical and social considerations of how fact is investigated, established, and substantiated through the proper application of the scientific method.[27] Scientific facts are generally believed independent of the observer: no matter who performs a scientific experiment, all observers agree on the outcome.[28] In addition to these considerations, there are the social and institutional measures, such as peer review and accreditation, that are intended to promote factual accuracy (among other interests) in scientific study.[29] In history[edit] Further information: Historiography A common rhetorical cliché states, "History is written by the winners." This phrase suggests but does not examine the use of facts in the writing of history. E. H. Carr in his 1961 volume What is History? argues that the inherent biases from the gathering of facts makes the objective truth of any historical perspective idealistic and impossible. Facts are, "like fish in the Ocean," of which we may only happen to catch a few, only an indication of what is below the surface. Even a dragnet cannot tell us for certain what it would be like to live below the Ocean's surface. Even if we do not discard any facts (or fish) presented, we will always miss the majority; the site of our fishing, the methods undertaken, the weather and even luck play a vital role in what we will catch. Additionally, the composition of history is inevitably made up by the compilation of many different biases of fact finding - all compounded over time. He concludes that for a historian to attempt a more objective method, one must accept that history can only aspire to a conversation of the present with the past - and that one's methods of fact gathering should be openly examined. Historical truth and facts therefore change over time, and reflect only the present consensus (if that). In law[edit] Further information: Evidence (law) and Trier of fact In most common law jurisdictions,[30] the general concept and analysis of fact reflects fundamental principles of jurisprudence, and is supported by several well-established standards.[31][32] Matters of fact have various formal definitions under common law jurisdictions. These include: an element required in legal pleadings to demonstrate a cause of action;[33][34] the determinations of the finder of fact after evaluating admissible evidence produced in a trial or hearing;[35] a potential ground of reversible error forwarded on appeal in an appellate court;[36] and any of various matters subject to investigation by official authority to establish whether a crime has been perpetrated, and to establish culpability.[37] Legal pleadings[edit] Main article: Pleading A party to a civil suit generally must clearly state all relevant allegations of fact that form the basis of a claim. The requisite level of precision and particularity of these allegations varies, depending on the rules of civil procedure and jurisdiction. Parties who face uncertainties regarding facts and circumstances attendant to their side in a dispute may sometimes invoke alternative pleading.[38] In this situation, a party may plead separate sets of facts that (when considered together) may be contradictory or mutually exclusive. This (seemingly) logically-inconsistent presentation of facts may be necessary as a safeguard against contingencies (such as res judicata) that would otherwise preclude presenting a claim or defense that depends on a particular interpretation of the underlying facts and ruling of the court.[39] See also[edit] Brute fact Consensus reality Counterfactual history De facto Factoid Lie References[edit] ^ "Fact". OED_2d_Ed_1989, (but note the conventional uses: after the fact and before the fact). ^ "Fact" (1a). OED_2d_Ed_1989 Joye Exp. Dan. xi. Z vij b, Let emprours and kinges know this godly kynges fact. 1545 ^ "Fact" (4a) OED_2d_Ed_1989 ^ "Werner Herzog Film: Statements / Texts". Wernerherzog.com. 1999-04-30. Archived from the original on 2014-07-15. Retrieved 2014-07-14. ^ "Fact" (6c). OED_2d_Ed_1989 ^ (See also "Matter" (2,6). Compact_OED) ^ "Fact" (5). OED_2d_Ed_1989 ^ According to the American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, "Fact has a long history of usage in the sense 'allegation'" AHD_4th_Ed. The OED dates this use to 1729. ^ "Fact" (6a). OED_2d_Ed_1989 ^ "Fact" (8). OED_2d_Ed_1989 ^ Roger Bacon, translated by Robert Burke Opus Majus, Book I, Chapter 2. ^ "A fact, it might be said, is a state of affairs that is the case or obtains." – Stanford Encyclopaedia of Philosophy. States of Affairs ^ See Wittgenstein, Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus, Proposition 2: What is the case -- a fact -- is the existence of states of affairs. ^ "A fact is, traditionally, the worldly correlate of a true proposition, a state of affairs whose obtaining makes that proposition true." – Fact in The Oxford Companion to Philosophy ^ Alex Oliver, Fact, in Craig, Edward (2005). Shorter Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Routledge, Oxford. ISBN 0-415-32495-5. ^ Engel, Pascal (2002). Truth. McGill-Queen's Press- MQUP. ISBN 0-7735-2462-2. ^ The argument is presented in many places, but see for example Davidson, Truth and Meaning, in Davidson, Donald (1984). Truth and Interpretation. Clarendon Press, Oxford. ISBN 0-19-824617-X. ^ "Facts possess internal structure, being complexes of objects and properties or relations" Oxford Companion to Philosophy ^ Fact, in The Oxford Companion to Philosophy, Ted Honderich, editor. (Oxford, 1995) ISBN 0-19-866132-0 ^ Gower, Barry (1997). Scientific Method: A Historical and Philosophical Introduction. Routledge. ISBN 0-415-12282-1. ^ Ravetz, Jerome Raymond (1996). Scientific Knowledge and Its Social Problems. Transaction Publishers. ISBN 1-56000-851-2. ^ (Gower 1996) ^ (see e.g., Ravetz, p. 182 fn. 1) ^ Ravetz, p. 185 ^ a b Gower, p. 138 ^ Gower, p. 7 ^ Ravetz p. 181 et. seq. (Chapter Six: "Facts and their evolution") ^ Cassell, Eric J. The Nature of Suffering and the Goals of Medicine Oxford University Press. Retrieved 16 May 2007. ^ (Ravetz 1996) ^ Ed. note: this section of the article emphasizes common law jurisprudence (as primarily represented in Anglo-American–based legal tradition). Nevertheless, the principles described herein have analogous treatment in other legal systems (such as civil law systems) as well. ^ Estrich, Willis Albert (1952). American Jurisprudence: A Comprehensive Text Statement of American Case Law. Lawyers Co-operative Publishing Company. ^ Elkouri, Frank (2003). How Arbitration Works. BNA Books. ISBN 1-57018-335-X. p. 305 ^ Bishin, William R. (1972). Law Language and Ethics: An Introduction to Law and Legal Method. Foundation Press. Original from the University of Michigan Digitized March 24, 2006. p. 277 ^ The Yale Law Journal: Volume 7. Yale Law Journal Co. 1898. ^ Per Lord Shaw of Dunfermline, Clarke v. Edinburgh and District Tramways Co., 1919 S.C.(H.L.) 35, at p 36. ^ Merrill, John Houston (1895). The American and English Encyclopedia of Law. E. Thompson. Original from Harvard University Digitized April 26, 2007. ^ Bennett, Wayne W. (2003). Criminal Investigation. Thomson Wadsworth. ISBN 0-534-61524-4. ^ Roy W. McDonald, Alternative Pleading in the United States: I Columbia Law Review, Vol. 52, No. 4 (Apr., 1952), pp. 443-478 ^ (McDonald 1952) External links[edit] Wikiversity has learning resources about Facing Facts Wikiquote has quotations related to: Fact Facts entry in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy v t e Philosophy of science Concepts Analysis Analytic–synthetic distinction A priori and a posteriori Causality Commensurability Consilience Construct Creative synthesis Demarcation problem Empirical evidence Explanatory power Fact Falsifiability Feminist method Functional contextualism Ignoramus et ignorabimus Inductive reasoning Intertheoretic reduction Inquiry Nature Objectivity Observation Paradigm Problem of induction Scientific law Scientific method Scientific revolution Scientific theory Testability Theory choice Theory-ladenness Underdetermination Unity of science Metatheory of science Coherentism Confirmation holism Constructive empiricism Constructive realism Constructivist epistemology Contextualism Conventionalism Deductive-nomological model Hypothetico-deductive model Inductionism Epistemological anarchism Evolutionism Fallibilism Foundationalism Instrumentalism Pragmatism Model-dependent realism Naturalism Physicalism Positivism / Reductionism / Determinism Rationalism / Empiricism Received view / Semantic view of theories Scientific realism / Anti-realism Scientific essentialism Scientific formalism Scientific skepticism Scientism Structuralism Uniformitarianism Vitalism Philosophy of Physics thermal and statistical Motion Chemistry Biology Geography Social science Technology Engineering Artificial intelligence Computer science Information Mind Psychiatry Psychology Perception Space and time Related topics Alchemy Criticism of science Epistemology Faith and rationality History and philosophy of science History of science History of evolutionary thought Logic Metaphysics Pseudoscience Relationship between religion and science Rhetoric of science Science studies Sociology of scientific knowledge Sociology of scientific ignorance Philosophers of science by era Ancient Plato Aristotle Stoicism Epicureans Medieval Averroes Avicenna Roger Bacon William of Ockham Hugh of Saint Victor Dominicus Gundissalinus Robert Kilwardby Early modern Francis Bacon Thomas Hobbes René Descartes Galileo Galilei Pierre Gassendi Isaac Newton David Hume Late modern Immanuel Kant Friedrich Schelling William Whewell Auguste Comte John Stuart Mill Herbert Spencer Wilhelm Wundt Charles Sanders Peirce Wilhelm Windelband Henri Poincaré Pierre Duhem Rudolf Steiner Karl Pearson Contemporary Alfred North Whitehead Bertrand Russell Albert Einstein Otto Neurath C. D. Broad Michael Polanyi Hans Reichenbach Rudolf Carnap Karl Popper Carl Gustav Hempel W. V. O. Quine Thomas Kuhn Imre Lakatos Paul Feyerabend Jürgen Habermas Ian Hacking Bas van Fraassen Larry Laudan Daniel Dennett Category Philosophy portal Science portal v t e Philosophical logic Critical thinking and informal logic Analysis Ambiguity Argument Belief Bias Credibility Evidence Explanation Explanatory power Fact Fallacy Inquiry Opinion Parsimony (Occam's razor) Premise Propaganda Prudence Reasoning Relevance Rhetoric Rigor Vagueness Theories of deduction Constructivism Dialetheism Fictionalism Finitism Formalism Intuitionism Logical atomism Logicism Nominalism Platonic realism Pragmatism Realism Science portal Philosophy portal Authority control GND: 4184506-7 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fact&oldid=946280617" Categories: Concepts in epistemology Concepts in logic Philosophy of science Reality Statements Truth Hidden categories: Articles with short description Articles with Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy links Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikiquote Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? Az?rbaycanca ????? Bân-lâm-gú ????????? ????????? Català ?eština ChiShona Dansk Deutsch Eesti Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français ??? ?????? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano ????? ??????? ???????? Latviešu Lietuvi? Luganda Magyar ?????????? Malti ?????? Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk ?????? Polski Român? ??????? Scots Shqip Sicilianu Simple English Sloven?ina ????? ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Sunda Suomi Svenska Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? ?????? ?? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 19 March 2020, at 05:15 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Matthew@Frank.info
