First Monday (journal) - Wikipedia First Monday (journal) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Monthly peer-reviewed open access academic journal This article relies too much on references to primary sources. Please improve this by adding secondary or tertiary sources. (October 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) First Monday   Discipline Computer science, internet studies Language English Edited by Edward J. Valauskas Publication details History 1996–present Publisher First Monday Editorial Group (United States) Frequency Monthly Open access Yes Standard abbreviations ISO 4 (alt) · Bluebook (alt1 · alt2) NLM (alt) · MathSciNet (alt ) ISO 4 First Monday Indexing CODEN · JSTOR (alt) · LCCN (alt) MIAR · NLM (alt) · Scopus ISSN 1396-0466 (print) 1396-0458 (web) LCCN sn97036844 OCLC no. 36875243 Links Journal homepage First Monday is a monthly peer-reviewed open access academic journal covering research on the Internet. Contents 1 Publication 2 History 2.1 Conferences 3 References 4 External links Publication[edit] The journal is sponsored and hosted by the University of Illinois at Chicago. It is published on the first Monday of every month.[1] In 2011, the journal had an acceptance rate of about 15%.[1] The journal has no article processing charges and no advertisements.[1] History[edit] According to the chief editor, Edward Valauskas, the journal emerged before the open access model emerged: “We didn’t call it open access in 1995 but we were certainly a precursor to the whole notion of open access. We felt very strongly that the journal should have all its content made freely available and we insisted with [the Danish publisher] Munksgaard that the scholars who contributed would retain copyright of their work that they published in the journal. We felt it would encourage scholars to contribute and then re-use their content in lots of different ways".[1] First Monday originated in the summer of 1995 with a proposal to start a new Internet-only, peer-reviewed journal about the Internet by eventual editor-in-chief Edward J. Valauskas to Munksgaard, a Danish publisher. Munksgaard agreed to publish the journal in September 1995. The first issue appeared on 6 May 1996, the first Monday of May, also the opening of the Fifth International World Wide Web Conference in Paris. The first issue was distributed at that conference on diskette as well as released on the Internet from a server in Copenhagen at the address www.firstmonday.dk. In December 1998, Munksgaard sold the journal to three of the editors: Edward J. Valauskas, Esther Dyson, and Rishab Aiyer Ghosh. The server was moved from Copenhagen to the University of Illinois at Chicago's Library. The first issue based on a server in Chicago appeared 4 January 1999. Conferences[edit] The first First Monday conference took place 4–6 November 2001 in Maastricht at the International Institute of Infonomics. To celebrate First Monday’s 10th birthday in 2006, a conference took place at the University of Illinois at Chicago, 15–17 May 2006. The theme of the conference was Openness: Code, science and content. Over 200 participants from over 30 countries took part in the meeting. Papers from the Conference were published in the June and July issues. The conference was sponsored by The Open Society Institute, The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, The University of Illinois at Chicago University Library and The Maastricht Economic Research Institute on Innovation and Technology (MERIT), University of Maastricht. References[edit] ^ a b c d "First Monday". Open Access Success Stories. September 2011. Retrieved 10 December 2014. External links[edit] Official website v t e University of Illinois at Chicago Academic life Electronic Visualization Laboratory First Monday Gallery 400 GEOLibrary Institute for Juvenile Research National Center for Data Mining National Center on Physical Activity and Disability UIC College Prep Athletics UIC Flames Baseball Men's basketball Women's basketball Men's soccer Horizon League Credit Union 1 Arena Campus and nearby Greektown Hull House Illinois Medical District Little Italy UIC–Halsted CTA station Credit Union 1 Arena UIC Police Station UIC Skyspace University Hall University of Illinois Hospital & Health Sciences System University Village Colleges Applied Health Sciences Architecture and Arts Business Administration Dentistry Education Engineering Graduate College Graduate School of Business Law Liberal Arts and Sciences Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Social Work Urban Planning and Public Affairs History Illinois Eye and Ear Infirmary Maxwell Street Navy Pier Campus University of Illinois at Chicago Circle Walter Netsch Students Alumni Honors College Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=First_Monday_(journal)&oldid=927015124" Categories: Computer science journals Cultural journals Digital humanities English-language journals Media about Internet culture Monthly journals Open access journals Publications established in 1996 University of Illinois at Chicago Hidden categories: Articles with short description Articles lacking reliable references from October 2013 All articles lacking reliable references Pages using deprecated image syntax Monthly journals (infobox) Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Polski Edit links This page was last edited on 19 November 2019, at 20:48 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
George@John.gov
