FOSDEM - Wikipedia FOSDEM From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Fosdem) Jump to navigation Jump to search Annual event in Brussels centered on free and open source software development This article may rely excessively on sources too closely associated with the subject, potentially preventing the article from being verifiable and neutral. Please help improve it by replacing them with more appropriate citations to reliable, independent, third-party sources. (November 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Free and Open Source Software Developers, European Meeting Genre Free and open-source software development conference Location(s) Brussels Country Belgium Inaugurated 2000 (2000) (as OSDEM), 2001 (2001) (as FOSDEM)[1] Website fosdem.org FOSDEM is well attended, nobody is allowed in once a talk is full Free and Open source Software Developers' European Meeting (FOSDEM) is a non-commercial, volunteer-organized European event centered on free and open-source software development. It is aimed at developers and anyone interested in the free and open-source software movement. It aims to enable developers to meet and to promote the awareness and use of free and open-source software. FOSDEM is held annually, usually during the first weekend of February, at the Université Libre de Bruxelles Solbosch campus in the southeast of Brussels, Belgium. Contents 1 History 1.1 Conference history 2 Financing 3 FSF Award 4 See also 5 References 6 External links History[edit] FOSDEM was started in 2000[2] under the name Open Source Developers of Europe Meeting (OSDEM) by Raphael Bauduin. Bauduin said that since he felt he lacked the brains to properly contribute to the open-source community, he wanted to contribute by launching a European event in Brussels. Bauduin teamed up with Damien Sandras.[3] The team repeated the event. The F (of FOSDEM) was added at the request of Richard Stallman.[4] The event has been annually in February since then, with growing numbers of visitors, talks and tracks. It is organized thanks to the help of many volunteers. The meeting hosted about 4,000 visitors every year by 2011.[5] Conference history[edit] 2001 – Event named OSDEM, started by a team of five people. Organized in two months. 2002 – Event renamed to FOSDEM, at the request of Richard Stallman. Attendance grew to a few thousand. 2003 Keynotes: The History of Free Software (Jon 'Maddog' Hall), FSF (Richard Stallman) Tracks: databases, desktop, education, multimedia, security, toolkit, tutorials Developer rooms: embedded software, gnome developers, GNUstep, KDE, Mozilla, PostgreSQL 2004 Keynotes: The open source paradigm shift (Tim O'Reilly), FSF (Richard Stallman) Tracks: accessibility, Java, Linux kernel, Scripting languages, security, X&Co Developer rooms: Debian, Java, OpenMosix, MySQL, Embedded software, KDE, Mozilla, Tcl Tutorials, unofficial talks served as a platform for ad hoc talks. Jimmy Wales at FOSDEM, 2005 2005 Keynotes: Wikipedia (Jimmy Wales), FSF (Richard Stallman) Tracks: Desktop, Development tools, GRID/Clusters, Linux kernel, Packaging tools, security Developer rooms: Calibre, Clustering, Dokeos, Embedded software, Gnome, GNU Hurd, KDE, Opengroupware, PHP/Pear, GNU Classpath, Debian, Drupal, Gentoo, GNUstep, Jabber, Mozilla, Perl, Tcl Unofficial talks were again present. 2006 Keynotes: Richard Stallman, GPLv3 discussion Tracks: Desktop, Development, Security, Systems, Voice over IP, Web 2.0 Developer rooms: Ada, GNU Classpath, Embedded software, Gnome, Jabber, Linux on Laptops, Opengroupware, Tcl/Tk, Calibre, Debian, Gentoo, GNUstep, KDE, Mozilla, openSUSE, X.org 2007 Keynotes: OLPC (Jim Gettys), Liberating Java (Simon Phipps) Tracks: main tracks: Opening/closing talks, Security, Desktop applications, Development and languages, Kernel, Web, Internet Services side tracks: Lightning Talks, Key signing party Developer rooms: CrossDesktop, KDE, Gnome, openSUSE, Mozilla, GNU Classpath+OpenJDK DevJam, CentOS+Fedora, Jabber, OpenGroupware+GNUstep, Python, Research Room, X.org, Gentoo, Debian, Embedded 2008 Keynotes: "Tux with Shades, Linux in Hollywood" (Robin Rowe), How a large scale opensource project works (Robert Watson), Status update of Software Patents (Pieter Hintjens) Tracks: Opening/Closing talks, Languages, Build Systems, Games, Packaging, Virtualization, Web Developer rooms: BSD+PostgreSQL, CentOS+Fedora, CrossDesktop, Debian, Drupal, Embedded, Free Java, GNOME, JBoss, Mozilla, OpenOffice.org, openSUSE, Research Room, Ruby on Rails, X.org There were lightning talks about miscellaneous subjects. 2009 Keynotes: "Free. Open. Future?" (Mark Surman), Debian (Bdale Garbee), Google Summer of Code: A behind the scenes look at a large scale community (Leslie Hawthorn) Tracks: Distributions, Languages, Security, Systems, Collaboration, Kernel Developer rooms: Ada, BSD+PostgreSQL, CentOS+Fedora, CrossDesktop, Debian, Drupal, Embedded, Free Java, GNOME, GNUStep+Groupware, Jabber+XMPP, KDE, Mozilla, OpenOffice.org, openSUSE, Ruby on Rails, X.org There were lightning talks about miscellaneous subjects. Various activities: Key Signing Party, Open Source Initiative special session, etc. FOSDEM 2010 2011 Keynotes: "Why Political Liberty Depends on Software Freedom More Than Ever" (Eben Moglen), "LLVM and Clang" (Chris Lattner), "How kernel development goes wrong and why you should be a part of it anyway" (Jonathan Corbet)[6] Tracks: Systems, Web browsing, Cloud, Languages, Office, Web frameworks[7] Developer rooms: Crossdesktop, Data analytics, Cross distro, Embedded, Free Java, GNU, Jabber & XMPP, Mono, Mozilla, MySQL & friends, Security & hardware crypto, World of GNUstep, Accessibility, Configuration & Systems management, LibreOffice, New challenges in virtualization, Open source telephony, Perl, PostgreSQL[7] There were lightning talks about miscellaneous subjects.[8] Various activities: PGP key signing,[9] certifications,[10] beer drinking,[11] etc. 2012 Keynotes: "Free Software: A viable model for Commercial Success" (Robert Dewar), "A new OSI for a new decade" (Simon Phipps), "Re-thinking system and distro development" (Lars Wirzenius), "Freedom, out of the box!" (Bdale Garbee)[12] Tracks: Future of UI, Hypervisors, Network and IO, System, Community, Development[12] Developer rooms: Ada, CrossDesktop, CrossDistribution, Embedded, Free Java, GNUstep, Hardware Cryptography, JBoss.org, Jabber and XMPP, Legal Issues, LibreOffice, Mono, Mozilla, Open Mobile Linux, PostgreSQL, Virtualization and Cloud, X.Org+OpenICC, Configuration and Systems Management, Graph Processing, Microkernel OS, MySQL and friends, Open Source Game Development, Perl, Security, Smalltalk, Telephony and Communications,[13] There were lightning talks about miscellaneous subjects.[14] 2013 Keynotes: "How we made the Jenkins community" (Kohsuke Kawaguchi), "The Devil is in the Details" (Amelia Andersdotter), "The Keeper of Secrets" (Leslie Hawthorn)[15] Tracks: Graphics hardware and FOSS[16] Play media FOSDEM 2015 2014[17] Developer rooms: Ada, Automotive development, BSD, Configuration management, Desktops, Distributions, Embedded, Energy-efficient computing, Game development, Go, Graph processing, Graphics, High-performance computing and computational science, Internet of things, Java, JavaScript, Legal issues, LLVM, Microkernel and component-based operating systems, Mozilla, MySQL, NoSQL, Open document editors, Perl, PostgreSQL, Python, Smalltalk, Software-defined radio, Testing and automation, Valgrind, Virtualisation, Wikis, Wine.[18] 2015[19] Keynotes: "Identity Crisis: Are we who we say we are? (Karen Sandler), "What is wrong with Operating Systems" (Antti Kantee), "Living on Mars: A Beginner's Guide" (Ryan MacDonald).[20] 2016[21] Keynotes: "systemd and Where We Want to Take the Basic Linux Userspace in 2016" (Lennart Poettering), "Ian Murdock – In Memoriam" (Martin Michlmayr), and "Putting 8 Million People on the Map – Revolutionizing crisis response through open mapping tools" (Blake Girardot).[22] DevRooms: Ada; BSD; Coding for Language Communities; Configuration Management; Containers and Process Isolation; Desktops; Distributions; EDA; Embedded, Mobile and Automotive; Free Java; GNU Guile; Geospatial; Go; Graph Processing; Graphics; high-performance computing, big data and data science; Internet of things (IoT); LLVM toolchain; Legal and Policy Issues; Lua; Microkernels; Mozilla; MySQL and Friends; Open Document Editors; Open Game Development; Open Media; Open Source Design; PHP and Friends; Perl; PostgreSQL; Python; Real Time; Ruby; SDN and NFV; Security; Software Defined Radio; Testing and Automation; Virtualisation and IaaS.[23] FOSDEM 2017 2017[24] Keynotes: "Kubernetes on the road to GIFEE" (Brandon Philips), "Software Heritage" (Stefano Zacchiroli, Roberto Di Cosmo), "Understanding The Complexity of Copyleft Defense" (Bradley M. Kuhn), "Using Linux in Air Traffic Control" (Gerolf Ziegenhain)[25] DevRooms: BSD; Backup and Disaster Recovery; Community; Config management; Decentralised Internet; Desktops; Distributions; Electronic Design Automation (EDA); Embedded, mobile and automotive; Free Java; GNU Guile; Geospatial; Go; Graph; HPC, big data and data science; oT; LLVM toolchain; Legal and Policy Issues; Linux Containers and Microservices; Lua; Microkernels and Component-based OS, Monitoring and Cloud; Mozilla; MySQL and Friends; Open Document Editors; Open Game Development; Open Media; Open Source Design; PHP and Friends; Perl; PostgreSQL; Python; Real Time Communications; Ruby; SDN and NFV; Security; Software Defined Radio; Software Defined Storage; Testing and Automation; Valgrind; Virtualisation and IaaS.[26] 2018[27] Keynotes: "Consensus as a Service" (Simon Phipps), "Next Generation Internet Initiative" (Rob van Kranenburg, Michiel Leenaars, Marietje Schaake, Georgios Tselentis), "Exploiting modern microarchitectures" (Jon Masters).[28] DevRooms: Ada; BSD; CAD and Open Hardware; Community; Config Management; Containers; DNS; Debugging tools; Decentralised Internet and Privacy; Distributions; Embedded, mobile and automotive; Free Java; Geospatial; Go; Graph Processing; Graphics; HPC, Big Data, and Data Science; Hardware Enablement; Identity and Access Management; Internet of Things; LLVM Toolchain; Legal and Policy Issues; Microkernels; Monitoring and Cloud; Mozilla; MySQL and Friends; Open Document Editors; Open Media; Open Source Design; Package Management; Perl Programming Languages; PostgreSQL; Real Time Communications; Retrocomputing; Rust; SDN and NFV; Software Defined Radio; Software Defined Storage; Source Code Analysis; Testing and automation; Tool the Docs; Virtualization and IaaS.[29] 2019[30] Keynotes: "Can Anyone Live in Full Software Freedom Today? Confessions of Activists Who Try But Fail to Avoid Proprietary Software" (Bradley M. Kuhn, Karen Sandler), "FLOSS, the Internet and the Future" (Mitchell Baker), "Blockchain: The Ethical Considerations" (Deb Nicholson), "The Cloud is Just Another Sun" (Kyle Rankin), "2019 – Fifty years of Unix and Linux advances" (Jon 'maddog' Hall).[31] DevRooms: .NET and TypeScript; Ada; BSD; Blockchain and Crypto Currencies; CAD and Open Hardware; Collaborative Information and Content Management Applications; Community devroom; Containers; DNS; Decentralized Internet and Privacy; Distributions; Free Java; Free Software Radio; Free Tools and Editors; Geospatial; Go; Graph Processing; Graphics; HPC, Big Data and Data Science; Hardware Enablement; Infra Management; Javascript; LLVM; Legal and Policy Issues; ML on Code; Microkernels and Component-based OS; Minimalistic Languages; Monitoring and Observability; Mozilla; MySQL, MariaDB and Friends; Open Document Editors; Open Media; Open Source Design; PHP & Friends; PostgreSQL; Python; Quantum Computing; RISC-V; Real Time Communications (RTC); Retrocomputing; Rust; Search; Security; Software Defined Networking; Software Defined Storage; Tool the Docs; Virtualization and IaaS.[32] 2020[33] Keynotes: "The Linux Kernel: We have to finish this thing one day ;) - Solving big problems in small steps for more than two decades" (Thorsten Leemhuis), "FOSSH - 2000 to 2020 and beyond! - maddog continues to pontificate" (Jon 'maddog' Hall), "FOSDEM@20 - A Celebration - The cliché of constant change" (Steven Goodwin) DevRooms: Free Java; Software Defined Networking; DNS; Web Performance; Open Source Computer Aided Modeling and Design; MySQL and Friends; Collaborative Information and Content Management Applications; Coding for Language Communities; Erlang, Elixir and Friends; Graph Processing; Ada; Open Research Tools and Technologies; Open Source Game Development; RISC-V; Retrocomputing; LLVM toolchain; X.Org/Graphics; Hardware-aided Trusted Computing; Open Source Firmware, BMC and Bootloader; Security; Quantum Computing; Legal and Policy Issues; Testing and Automation; Python; Open Document Editors; Backup and Recovery; Dependency Management; Infra Management; Containers; Embedded; JavaScript; Software Defined Storage; Virtualization and IaaS; Open Source Design; PostgreSQL; Software Defined Radio; BSD; Minimalistic Languages; Geospatial; Distributions; Rust; Debugging tools; Hardware Enablement; Microkernels and Component-based OS; Mozilla; Kotlin; Decentralized Internet and Privacy; Open Media; Go; Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment; HPC and computational science; Community Development; Free Tools and Editors; Monitoring and Observability; Real Time Communications; Internet of Things [34] Financing[edit] Entrance and participation in the event is entirely free. It is financed by sponsors who accept the non-commercial nature of the event, and by donors amongst the visitors. Donors receive an incentive in form of a token present and everything is organized and set up by volunteers. FSF Award[edit] The Free Software Foundation's ceremony for the Award for the Advancement of Free Software was held at FOSDEM from 2002 to 2006 (for the awards for 2001 to 2005).[35][36] See also[edit] Free and open-source software portal List of free-software events References[edit] ^ "about FOSDEM". ^ "FOSDEM 2018 – About FOSDEM". fosdem.org. Retrieved 2018-01-27. ^ "FOSDEM 2007 over". ^ "Fosdem 2002: Fosdem organiser interview". Retrieved 2011-03-16. ^ "About FOSDEM". FOSDEM. 2011. Archived from the original on 30 September 2011. Retrieved 16 March 2011. ^ "Keynotes". Archived from the original on 10 March 2011. Retrieved 21 March 2011. ^ a b "Tracks". Archived from the original on 5 April 2011. Retrieved 21 March 2011. ^ "Lightning talks". Archived from the original on 2 March 2011. Retrieved 21 March 2011. ^ "Key Signing & CAcert Assurance". Archived from the original on 3 March 2011. Retrieved 21 March 2011. ^ "Certification Exams". Archived from the original on 3 March 2011. Retrieved 21 March 2011. ^ "Beer Event". Archived from the original on 27 February 2011. Retrieved 21 March 2011. ^ a b "Main Tracks 2012". Retrieved 14 December 2012. ^ "Devrooms 2012". Retrieved 14 December 2012. ^ "Lightning Talks 2012". Retrieved 14 December 2012. ^ FOSDEM 2013 – Keynotes. Archive.fosdem.org (2013-02-03). Retrieved on 2013-09-19. ^ "FOSDEM 2013 – Tracks". Archive.fosdem.org. 2013-02-03. Retrieved 2014-01-27. ^ "FOSDEM 2014 – Home". Fosdem.org. Retrieved 2014-01-27. ^ "FOSDEM 2014 accepted developer rooms". Fosdem.org. Retrieved 2014-01-27. ^ "FOSDEM 2015 – Home". Fosdem.org. ^ "FOSDEM 2015 Keynote speakers". Fosdem.org. ^ "FOSDEM 2016". FOSDEM.org. ^ "FOSDEM 2016 Keynote speakers". FOSDEM.org. ^ "FOSDEM 2016 developer rooms". FOSDEM.org. ^ "FOSDEM 2017". FOSDEM.org. ^ "FOSDEM 2017 Keynote speakers". FOSDEM.org. ^ "FOSDEM 2017 developer rooms". FOSDEM.org. ^ "FOSDEM 2018". FOSDEM.org. ^ "FOSDEM 2018 Keynote speakers". FOSDEM.org. ^ "FOSDEM 2018 developer rooms". FOSDEM.org. ^ "FOSDEM 2019". FOSDEM.org. ^ "FOSDEM 2019 Keynote speakers". FOSDEM.org. ^ "FOSDEM 2019 developer rooms". FOSDEM.org. ^ "FOSDEM 2020". FOSDEM.org. ^ "FOSDEM 2020 developer rooms". FOSDEM.org. ^ GNU Project (26 September 2008). "Prior Years' Free Software Award". Free Software Foundation. Retrieved 16 March 2011. ^ Sullivan, John. "Award for the Advancement of Free Software". Free Software Foundation. Retrieved 16 March 2011. External links[edit] Media related to FOSDEM at Wikimedia Commons Official website Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=FOSDEM&oldid=943694271" Categories: Free-software conferences Linux conferences Recurring events established in 2001 Hidden categories: Articles with short description Articles lacking reliable references from November 2013 All articles lacking reliable references Commons category link from Wikidata Articles containing video clips Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Español ????? Français ??? Nederlands ??? Polski ??????? Shqip Sloven?ina Suomi ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 3 March 2020, at 11:45 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Moses@Garfield.gov.ca
