Free-culture movement - Wikipedia Free-culture movement From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search social movement promoting free content For other uses, see Free Culture. Lawrence Lessig, an influential activist of the free-culture movement, in 2005. The free-culture movement is a social movement that promotes the freedom to distribute and modify the creative works of others in the form of free content[1][2] or open content[3][4][5] without compensation to, or the consent of, the work's original creators, by using the Internet and other forms of media. The movement objects to what it considers over-restrictive copyright laws. Many members of the movement argue that such laws hinder creativity.[6] They call this system "permission culture."[7] Creative Commons is an organization started by Lawrence Lessig which provides licenses that permit sharing and remixing under various conditions, and also offers an online search of various Creative Commons-licensed works. The free-culture movement, with its ethos of free exchange of ideas, is aligned with the free and open-source-software movement, as well as other movements and philosophies such as open access (OA), the remix culture, the hacker culture, the access to knowledge movement, the copyleft movement and the public domain movement. Contents 1 History 1.1 Precursors 1.2 Background of the formation of the free-culture movement 1.3 Foundation of the Creative Commons 1.4 "Definition of Free Cultural Works" 2 Organizations 3 Reception 3.1 Skepticism from the FSF 3.2 Copyright proponents 4 See also 5 References 6 External links History[edit] Precursors[edit] In the late 1960s, Stewart Brand founded the Whole Earth Catalog and argued that technology could be liberating rather than oppressing.[8] He coined the slogan "Information wants to be free" in 1984[9] against limiting access to information by governmental control, preventing a public domain of information.[10] Background of the formation of the free-culture movement[edit] In 1998, the United States Congress passed the Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act which President Clinton signed into law. The legislation extended copyright protections for twenty additional years, resulting in a total guaranteed copyright term of seventy years after a creator's death. The bill was heavily lobbied by music and film corporations like Disney, and dubbed as the Mickey Mouse Protection Act. Lawrence Lessig claims copyright is an obstacle to cultural production, knowledge sharing and technological innovation, and that private interests – as opposed to public good – determine law.[11] He travelled the country in 1998, giving as many as a hundred speeches a year at college campuses, and sparked the movement. It led to the foundation of the first chapter of the Students for Free Culture at Swarthmore College. In 1999, Lessig challenged the Bono Act, taking the case to the US Supreme Court. Despite his firm belief in victory, citing the Constitution's plain language about "limited" copyright terms, Lessig only gained two dissenting votes: from Justices Stephen Breyer and John Paul Stevens. Foundation of the Creative Commons[edit] In 2001, Lessig initiated Creative Commons, an alternative "some rights reserved" licensing system to the default "all rights reserved" copyright system. Lessig focuses on a fair balance between the interest of the public to use and participate into released creative works and the need of protection for a creator's work, which still enables a "read-write" remix culture.[6] The term “free culture” was originally used since 2003 during the World Summit on Information Society[12] to present the first free license for artistic creation at large, initiated by the Copyleft attitude team in France since 2001 (named free art license). It was then developed in Lawrence Lessig's book Free Culture in 2004.[13] In August 2003 the Open Content Project, a 1998 Creative Commons precursor by David A. Wiley, announced the Creative Commons as successor project and Wiley joined as director.[14][15] "Definition of Free Cultural Works"[edit] In 2005/2006 within the free-culture movement, Creative Commons has been criticized by Erik Möller[16] and Benjamin Mako Hill for lacking minimum standards for freedom.[17] Following this, the "Definition of Free Cultural Works" was created as collaborative work of many, including Erik Möller, Lawrence Lessig, Benjamin Mako Hill and Richard Stallman.[18] In February 2008, several Creative Commons licenses were "approved for free cultural works", namely the CC BY and CC BY-SA (later also the CC0).[19] Creative commons licenses with restrictions on commercial use or derivative works were not approved. In October 2014 the Open Knowledge Foundation described their definition of "open", for open content and open knowledge, as synonymous to the definition of "free" in the "Definition of Free Cultural Works", noting that both are rooted in the Open Source Definition and Free Software Definition.[20] Therefore, the same three creative commons licenses are recommended for open content and free content, CC BY, CC BY-SA, and CC0.[21][22][23] The Open Knowledge foundation defined additionally three specialized licenses for data and databases, previously unavailable, the Open Data Commons Public Domain Dedication and Licence (PDDL), the Open Data Commons Attribution License (ODC-BY) and the Open Data Commons Open Database License (ODbL). Organizations[edit] Creative Commons logo The organization commonly associated with free culture is Creative Commons (CC), founded by Lawrence Lessig. CC promotes sharing creative works and diffusing ideas to produce cultural vibrance, scientific progress and business innovation. Student organization FreeCulture.org, inspired by Lessig and founded 2003. The Building blocks are a symbol for reuse and remixing of creative works, used also as symbol of the Remix culture. QuestionCopyright.org is another organization whose stated mission is "to highlight the economic, artistic, and social harm caused by distribution monopolies, and to demonstrate how freedom-based distribution is better for artists and audiences."[24] QuestionCopyright may be best known for its association with artist Nina Paley, whose multi-award-winning feature length animation Sita Sings The Blues has been held up as an extraordinarily successful[25] example of free distribution under the aegis of the "Sita Distribution Project".[26] The web site of the organization has a number of resources, publications, and other references related to various copyright, patent, and trademark issues. The student organization Students for Free Culture is sometimes confusingly called "the Free Culture Movement," but that is not its official name. The organization is a subset of the greater movement. The first chapter was founded in 1998 at Swarthmore College, and by 2008, the organization had twenty-six chapters.[27] The free-culture movement takes the ideals of the free and open-source software movement and extends them from the field of software to all cultural and creative works. Early in Creative Commons' life, Richard Stallman (the founder of the Free Software Foundation and the free software movement) supported the organization. He withdrew his support due to the introduction of several licenses including a developing nations and the sampling licenses[28] and later restored some support when Creative Commons retired those licenses. The free music movement, a subset of the free-culture movement, started out just as the Web rose in popularity with the Free Music Philosophy[29] by Ram Samudrala in early 1994. It was also based on the idea of free software by Richard Stallman and coincided with nascent open art and open information movements (referred to here as collectively as the "free-culture movement"). The Free Music Philosophy used a three pronged approach to voluntarily encourage the spread of unrestricted copying, based on the fact that copies of recordings and compositions could be made and distributed with complete accuracy and ease via the Internet. The subsequent free music movement was reported on by diverse media outlets including Billboard,[30] Forbes,[31] Levi's Original Music Magazine,[32] The Free Radical,[33] Wired[34][35] and The New York Times.[36] Along with the explosion of the Web driven by open source software and Linux, the rise of P2P and lossy compression, and despite the efforts of the music industry, free music became largely a reality in the early 21st century.[37] Organizations such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation and Creative Commons with free information champions like Lawrence Lessig were devising numerous licenses that offered different flavors of copyright and copyleft. The question was no longer why and how music should be free, but rather how creativity would flourish while musicians developed models to generate revenue in the Internet era.[38][39][40] Reception[edit] Skepticism from the FSF[edit] Initially, Free Software Foundation founder Richard Stallman did not see the importance of free works beyond software.[41] For instance for manuals and books Stallman stated in the 1990s: As a general rule, I don't believe that it is essential for people to have permission to modify all sorts of articles and books. The issues for writings are not necessarily the same as those for software. For example, I don't think you or I are obliged to give permission to modify articles like this one, which describe our actions and our views. Similarly, in 1999 Stallman said that he sees "no social imperative for free hardware designs like the imperative for free software".[42] Other authors, such as Joshua Pearce, have argued that there is an ethical imperative for open-source hardware, specifically with respect to open-source-appropriate technology for sustainable development.[43] Later, Stallman changed his position slightly and advocated for free sharing of information in 2009.[44] But, in 2011 Stallman commented on the Megaupload founder's arrest, "I think all works meant for practical uses must be free, but that does not apply to music, since music is meant for appreciation, not for practical use."[45] In a follow up Stallman differentiated three classes: Works of practical use should be free, Works representing points of view should be shareable but not changeable and works of art or entertainment should be copyrighted (but only for 10 years).[46] In an essay in 2012 Stallman argued that video games as software should be free but not their artwork.[47] In 2015 Stallman advocated for free hardware designs.[48] Copyright proponents[edit] Vocal criticism against the free-culture movement comes from copyright proponents. Prominent technologist and musician Jaron Lanier discusses this perspective of Free Culture in his 2010 book You Are Not a Gadget. Lanier's concerns include the depersonalization of crowd-sourced anonymous media (such as Wikipedia) and the economic dignity of middle-class creative artists. Andrew Keen, a critic of Web 2.0, criticizes some of the Free Culture ideas in his book, Cult of the Amateur, describing Lessig as an "intellectual property communist."[49] The decline of news media industry's market share is blamed on free culture but scholars like Clay Shirky claim that the market itself, not free culture, is what's killing the journalism industry.[13] See also[edit] 2600: The Hacker Quarterly Access to knowledge movement Anti-copyright Commodification Commons-based peer production Criticism of intellectual property Culture vs. Copyright Cypherpunk Free content Free education Freedom of information Free software Open content Open-design movement Open educational resources Open-source architecture Open-source model Open-source movement Patentleft Pirate Party Remix culture Science 2.0 Sharing economy The Virtual Revolution References[edit] ^ "What does a free culture look like?". Students of Free culture. Retrieved 2009-10-24. ^ "What is free culture?". Students of Free culture. Retrieved 2009-10-24. ^ The Alternative Media Handbook by Kate Coyer, Tony Dowmunt, Alan Fountain ^ Open Access: What You Need to Know Now by Walt Crawford ^ Open Content - A Practical Guide to Using Creative Commons Licences by Wikimedia Deutschland by Till Kreutzer (2014) ^ a b Larry Lessig (2007-03-01). "Larry Lessig says the law is strangling creativity". ted.com. Retrieved 2016-02-26. ^ Robert S. Boynton: The Tyranny of Copyright? Archived 2009-02-28 at the Wayback Machine The New York Times, January 25, 2004 ^ Baker, Ronald J (2008-02-08), Mind over matter: why intellectual capital is the chief source of wealth, p. 80, ISBN 9780470198810 . ^ "Edge 338", Edge (338), retrieved 2011-04-23 . ^ Wagner, R Polk, Information wants to be free: intellectual property and the mythologies of control (PDF essay), University of Pennsylvania . ^ Lessig, Lawrence (2004). Free Culture: The Nature and Future of Creativity. New York: Penguin. p. 368. ISBN 9781101200841. Retrieved March 15, 2014. ^ WSIS (2001). "PCT WORKING GROUP EVENT" Archived 2013-07-29 at the Wayback Machine ^ a b Quart, Alissa (2009). "Expensive Gifts", Columbia Journalism Review, 48(2). ^ David A. Wiley (30 June 2003). "OpenContent is officially closed. And that's just fine". opencontent.org. Archived from the original on 2003-08-02. Retrieved 2016-02-21. I'm closing OpenContent because I think Creative Commons is doing a better job of providing licensing options which will stand up in court. ^ Creative Commons Welcomes David Wiley as Educational Use License Project Lead by matt on creativecommons.org (June 23rd, 2003) ^ Erik Moeller (2006). "The Case for Free Use: Reasons Not to Use a Creative Commons -NC License" (PDF). Open Source Jahrbuch. ^ Benjamin Mako Hill (June 29, 2005). "Towards a Standard of Freedom: Creative Commons and the Free Software Movement". Mako.cc. Retrieved 2011-12-03. ^ Definition of Free Cultural Works. Freedomdefined.org (2008-12-01). Retrieved on 2011-12-03. ^ "Approved for Free Cultural Works". 2008-02-20. ^ Open Definition 2.1 on opendefinition.org ^ licenses on opendefinition.com ^ Creative Commons 4.0 BY and BY-SA licenses approved conformant with the Open Definition by Timothy Vollmer on creativecommons.org (December 27th, 2013) ^ Open Definition 2.0 released by Timothy Vollmer on creativecommons.org (October 7th, 2014) ^ A Clearinghouse For New Ideas About Copyright. QuestionCopyright.org. Retrieved on 2011-12-03. ^ Nina Paley at HOPE 2010. YouTube. Retrieved on 2011-12-03. ^ The Sita Sings the Blues Distribution Project. QuestionCopyright.org (2009-09-15). Retrieved on 2011-12-03. ^ Hayes, Christopher (2009). "Mr. Lessig Goes to Washington", The Nation, June 16, 2008 ^ interview for LinuxP2P (6 February 2006) ^ Samudrala, Ram (1994). "The Free Music Philosophy". Retrieved 2008-10-26. ^ Nielsen Business Media, Inc. (18 July 1998). Billboard. Nielsen Business Media, Inc. ISSN 0006-2510. Retrieved 3 December 2011. ^ Penenberg A. Habias copyrightus. ''Forbes'', July 11 1997. Forbes.com. Retrieved on 2011-12-03. ^ Durbach D. Short fall to freedom: The free music insurgency. ''Levi's Original Music Magazine'', November 19, 2008. Web.archive.org (2010-06-01). Retrieved on 2011-12-03. ^ Ballin M. Unfair Use. ''The Free Radical'' 47, 2001. Freeradical.co.nz. Retrieved on 2011-12-03. ^ Oakes C. Recording industry goes to war against web sites. Wired, June 10 1997. Wired.com. Retrieved on 2011-12-03. ^ Stutz M. They (used to) write the songs. Wired, June 12 1998. Freerockload.ucoz.com. Retrieved on 2011-12-03. ^ Napoli L. Fans of MP3 forced the issue. ''The New York Times'', December 16 1998. Nytimes.com. Retrieved on 2011-12-03. ^ Alternate Kinds of Freedom by Troels Just. Troelsjust.dk. Archived on 2014-09-03. ^ Schulman BM. The song heard 'round the world: The copyright implications of MP3s and the future of digital music. ''Harvard Journal of Law and Technology'' 12: 3, 1999. Archived 2012-04-09 at the Wayback Machine. (PDF) . Retrieved on 2011-12-03. ^ Samudrala R. The future of music. 1997. Ram.org. Retrieved on 2011-12-03. ^ Story of a Revolution: Napster & the Music Industry. ''MusicDish'', 2000. (PDF) . Retrieved on 2011-12-03. ^ Brett Watson (1999-02-10). "Philosophies of Free Software and Intellectual Property". Retrieved 2016-02-24. Is Software special? [...] So restricting modification is not necessarily evil when it comes to "articles and books"? Or does he just mean that we aren't obliged to let others misrepresent us? Alas, no mention of restricting verbatim duplication. Even Stallman's story on "The Right to Read" does not address the issue directly, despite being about IPR issues other than software. It extrapolates a dystopian future from our current position and acts as a warning about current trends, but offers no comment on the status quo. [...] There is a striking lack of discussion from the usual leaders with regards to the application of copyright in areas other than software. Raymond is mute, and Stallman mumbles. They both seem to view software as a special case: Raymond tacitly, and Stallman explicitly. ^ Richard Stallman -- On "Free Hardware" on linuxtoday.com "I see no social imperative for free hardware designs like the imperative for free software." (Jun 22, 1999) ^ Joshua M. Pearce, "The Case for Open Source Appropriate Technology", Environment, Development and Sustainability, 14, pp. 425-431 (2012) ^ Stallman, Richard (2009). "Ending the War on Sharing". ^ Boot up: Google and Facebook work on antiphishing tool, Richard Stallman on MegaUpload arrests, and more on The Guardian (January 30, 2012) ^ Correcting The Guardian's paraphrase by Richard Stallman (Jan 22, 2012) ^ Nonfree DRM'd Games on GNU/Linux: Good or Bad? on fsf.org by Richard Stallman "Nonfree game programs (like other nonfree programs) are unethical because they deny freedom to their users. (Game art is a different issue, because it isn't software." (May 31, 2012) ^ Hardware Designs Should Be Free. Here’s How to Do It by Richard Stallman on wired.com (03.18.2015) ^ Keen, Andrew (May 16, 2006). Web 2.0; The second generation of the Internet has arrived. It's worse than you think. The Weekly Standard External links[edit] Wikiversity has learning resources about Free culture movement Resources Berry, David M. and Giles Moss. 2006. The Politics of the Libre Commons. First Monday. Volume 11 (September) Pasquinelli, Matteo. "The Ideology of Free Culture and the Grammar of Sabotage"[permanent dead link]; now in Animal Spirits: A Bestiary of the Commons, Rotterdam: NAi Publishers, 2008. Videoblog: Free Culture, Free Software, Free Infrastructures! Openness and Freedom in every Layer of the Network (Interviews with Kloschi (Freifunk), Kurt Jansson (Wikimedia), Jürgen Neumann (Freifunk), Rishab Aiyer Ghosh (United Nations University), Lawrence Lessig (Creative Commons) and Allison and Benoit (Montréal Wireless)) v t e Intellectual property activism Issues Artificial scarcity Copyright infringement Copyright troll Digital rights management Gripe site Legal aspects of file sharing Mashup digital music videos Monopolies of knowledge Music piracy Orphan works Patents biological software software patent debate trolling Public domain Concepts All rights reversed Alternative compensation system Anti-copyright notice Business models for open-source software Copyleft Commercial use of copyleft works Commons-based peer production Electronic sell-through Free content Free software license Libertarian positions Open content Open-design movement Open Music Model Open patent Open-source Open-source hardware Open-source software Prize system contests Share-alike Video on demand Movements Access to Knowledge movement Anti-copyright Cultural environmentalism Free-culture movement Free software movement Organizations Pro-copyright Copyright Alliance Pro-copyleft Creative Commons Electronic Frontier Foundation Free Software Foundation Open Rights Group Organization for Transformative Works The Pirate Bay Piratbyrån Pirate Party Public Knowledge Sci-Hub Students for Free Culture People Cory Doctorow Alexandra Elbakyan Rick Falkvinge Lawrence Lessig Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Documentaries Steal This Film (2006, 2007) Good Copy Bad Copy (2007) RiP!: A Remix Manifesto (2008) TPB AFK: The Pirate Bay Away From Keyboard (2013) The Internet's Own Boy (2014) v t e Free-culture and open-source movements Concepts and practices Key concepts Commons-based peer production Crowdsourcing Gratis versus libre Open collaboration Openness Participatory culture Sharism Social peer-to-peer processes Peer-to-peer banking Peer-to-peer carsharing Peer-to-peer lending Peer-to-peer ridesharing Research and science Citizen science Open science Access Notebook science Research Science data Plan S Data, information, and knowledge Free content Knowledge commons Open communication Open knowledge Content Data Communication and learning Media Collaborative writing Democratic media Open publishing Participatory media Peer review Education Open education Educational resources University Admissions Open-door academic policy Journalism Citizen media Citizen journalism and Wiki journalism Open-source journalism Economy, production, and development Products Free and open-source software - FOSS Free/Libre software Open-source software Open-design movement Robotics Open gaming Open-source architecture Open-source hardware Economic principles Gift economy Open innovation Open patent Open standard Sharing economy Politics and governance Open government Open-source governance Organizations Creative Commons Free Software Foundation Open Architecture Network Openmod initiative Open Knowledge International Open Rights Group Open Source Initiative Open Web Foundation P2P Foundation Pirate Party PLOS SPARC Activists Tim Berners-Lee Alexandra Elbakyan Cody Wilson Lawrence Lessig Peter Murray-Rust Douglas Rushkoff Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Matthew H. Todd John Wilbanks Projects and movements DIYbio Free-culture movement Free software movement Open science movement Open Source Ecology Open-source software movement OpenCores OpenWetWare Sci-Hub Tools Licenses Creative Commons GPL Definition Docs Free Cultural Works Free Software Open Open Source Open Data Indices Open educational resources Open music model Open Web movement v t e Academic publishing Journals Academic journal Scientific journal Open access journal Public health journal Papers Scholarly paper Review article Position paper Working paper Literature review Other types of publication Thesis (Collection of articles, Monograph) Specialized patent (biological, chemical) Book Book chapter Technical report Pamphlet Essay White paper Preprint Poster session Lab notes Abstract Impact and ranking Altmetrics Article-level metrics Bibliometrics Citation impact Citation index Journal ranking Eigenfactor h-index Impact factor SCImago Journal Rank Scientometrics Reform Academic journal publishing reform Full-text-on-the-Net bias (FUTON bias) Open access Serials crisis Sci-Hub Indexes and search engines Google Scholar PubMed PubMed Central Scopus Web of Science CiteSeerX Scirus (defunct) Related topics Imprint Scientific writing Peer review Proceedings Grey literature Scientific literature Learned society Open research Open science data ORCID Electronic publishing Ingelfinger rule Lists Academic journals Scientific journals Open-access journals Academic databases and search engines University presses Style/formatting guides Category:Academic publishing Category:Scientific documents Portal Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Free-culture_movement&oldid=944228388" Categories: Digital rights Free goods and services Free culture movement Intellectual property activism Criticism of intellectual property Social movements Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from October 2017 Articles with permanently dead external links Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiversity Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? ????? Deutsch Eesti Español Esperanto ????? Français Galego ??? ??????? Íslenska Italiano Jawa ???????? Magyar Nederlands ??? Polski Português ??????? Svenska Türkçe ?????????? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 6 March 2020, at 14:42 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Harold@Thomas.gov
