The Free Software Definition - Wikipedia The Free Software Definition From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Free Software Definition) Jump to navigation Jump to search Free Software Foundation document defining free (libre) software The Free Software Definition written by Richard Stallman and published by Free Software Foundation (FSF), defines free software as being software that ensures that the end users have freedom in using, studying, sharing and modifying that software. The term "free" is used in the sense of "free speech," not of "free of charge."[1] The earliest-known publication of the definition was in the February 1986 edition[2] of the now-discontinued GNU's Bulletin publication of FSF. The canonical source for the document is in the philosophy section of the GNU Project website. As of April 2008[update], it is published there in 39 languages.[3] FSF publishes a list of licences which meet this definition. Contents 1 The definition and the Four Freedoms 2 Later definitions 3 Comparison with The Open Source Definition 4 See also 5 References 6 External links The definition and the Four Freedoms[edit] The definition published by FSF in February 1986 had two points:[2] The word "free" in our name does not refer to price; it refers to freedom. First, the freedom to copy a program and redistribute it to your neighbors, so that they can use it as well as you. Second, the freedom to change a program, so that you can control it instead of it controlling you; for this, the source code must be made available to you. In 1996, when the gnu.org website was launched, "free software" was defined referring to "three levels of freedom" by adding an explicit mention of the freedom to study the software (which could be read in the two-point definition as being part of the freedom to change the program).[4][5] Stallman later avoided the word "levels", saying that you need all of the freedoms, so it's misleading to think in terms of levels. Finally, another freedom was added, to explicitly say that users should be able to run the program. The existing freedoms were already numbered one to three, but this freedom should come before the others, so it was added as "freedom zero".[6][7] The modern definition defines free software by whether or not the recipient has the following four freedoms:[8] The freedom to run the program as you wish, for any purpose (freedom 0). The freedom to study how the program works, and change it so it does your computing as you wish (freedom 1). Access to the source code is a precondition for this. The freedom to redistribute copies so you can help your neighbor (freedom 2). The freedom to distribute copies of your modified versions to others (freedom 3). By doing this you can give the whole community a chance to benefit from your changes. Access to the source code is a precondition for this. Freedoms 1 and 3 require source code to be available because studying and modifying software without its source code is highly impractical. Later definitions[edit] In July 1997, Bruce Perens published the Debian Free Software Guidelines.[9] A definition based on the DFSG was also used by the Open Source Initiative (OSI) under the name "The Open Source Definition". Comparison with The Open Source Definition[edit] Main article: Alternative terms for free software See also: Comparison of free and open-source software licenses Despite the philosophical differences between the free-software movement and the open-source-software movement, the official definitions of free software by the FSF and of open-source software by the OSI basically refer to the same software licences, with a few minor exceptions. While stressing the philosophical differences, the Free Software Foundation comments: The term "open source" software is used by some people to mean more or less the same category as free software. It is not exactly the same class of software: they accept some licences that we consider too restrictive, and there are free software licences they have not accepted. However, the differences in extension of the category are small: nearly all free software is open source, and nearly all open source software is free. —?Free Software Foundation[10] See also[edit] Free and open-source software portal Free software movement (FSM) The GNU Manifesto Definition of Free Cultural Works Debian Free Software Guidelines The Open Source Definition References[edit] ^ "What is free software? - GNU Project - Free Software Foundation". Gnu.org. 2013-06-18. Retrieved 2013-10-03. ^ a b Stallman, Richard M. (February 1986). "GNU's Bulletin, Volume 1 Number 1". Gnu.org. p. 8. Retrieved 2019-02-08. ^ "The Free Software Definition - Translations of this page". Free Software Foundation Inc. Retrieved 2013-10-03. ^ "What is Free Software? - GNU Project - Free Software Foundation (FSF)". Ru.j-npcs.org. 1997-03-20. Retrieved 2013-10-03. ^ "What is Free Software? - GNU Project - Free Software Foundation (FSF)". Web.archive.org. Archived from the original on January 26, 1998. Retrieved 2013-10-03. ^ Free Software Foundation (2018-07-21). "What is free software? - GNU Project - Free Software Foundation (Footnote)". The reason they are numbered 0, 1, 2 and 3 is historical. Around 1990 there were three freedoms, numbered 1, 2 and 3. Then we realized that the freedom to run the program needed to be mentioned explicitly. It was clearly more basic than the other three, so it properly should precede them. Rather than renumber the others, we made it freedom 0. ^ "The Four Freedoms". I [Matt Mullenweg] originally thought Stallman started counting with zero instead of one because he's a geek. He is, but that wasn't the reason. Freedoms one, two, and three came first, but later he wanted to add something to supersede all of them. So: freedom zero. The geekness is a happy accident. ^ Stallman, Richard. "The Free Software Definition". Free Software Foundation. Retrieved 2013-10-15. ^ Bruce Perens. "Debian's "Social Contract" with the Free Software Community". debian-announce mailing list. ^ https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/categories.html.en External links[edit] The Free Software Definition v t e Free and open-source software General Alternative terms for free software Comparison of open-source and closed-source software Comparison of source-code-hosting facilities Free software Free software project directories Gratis versus libre Long-term support Open-source software Open-source software development Outline Software packages Audio Bioinformatics Codecs Collaboration Configuration management Device drivers Graphics Wireless Geophysics Health Mathematics Operating systems Programming languages Routing Statistics Television Video games Web applications Content management systems E-commerce Word processors Android apps iOS apps Commercial Trademarked Formerly proprietary Formerly open-source Community Free software movement History Open-source-software movement Organizations Events Licenses AFL Apache APSL Artistic Beerware Boost BSD CC0 CDDL EPL Free Software Foundation GNU GPL GNU LGPL ISC MIT MPL Ms-PL/RL Python Python Software Foundation License Sleepycat Unlicense WTFPL zlib Types and standards Comparison of free and open-source software licenses Contributor License Agreement Copyleft Debian Free Software Guidelines Definition of Free Cultural Works Free license The Free Software Definition The Open Source Definition Open-source license Permissive software license Public domain Viral license Challenges Digital rights management Firmware security Hardware restrictions License proliferation Mozilla software rebranding Proprietary device drivers Proprietary firmware Proprietary software SCO/Linux controversies Secure boot Software patents Software security Trusted Computing Related topics Forking GNU Manifesto Microsoft Open Specification Promise Open-core model Open-source hardware Shared Source Initiative Source-available software The Cathedral and the Bazaar Revolution OS Free and open-source software portal Category Book Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Free_Software_Definition&oldid=940484917" Categories: Free software Free Software Foundation Free and open-source software licenses Hidden categories: Articles with short description Articles containing potentially dated statements from April 2008 All articles containing potentially dated statements Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ????? Deutsch ???????? Español ????? ??? Italiano Nederlands ??? Polski Português ??????? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 12 February 2020, at 20:33 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Garfield@Harold.ca
