Fulbright Program - Wikipedia Fulbright Program From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Merit-based grants "Fulbright" and "Fullbright" redirect here. For the senator, see J. William Fulbright. For the indie video game developer, see Fullbright (company). Official Fulbright Program logo used since May 2019 The Fulbright Program, including the Fulbright–Hays Program, is one of several United States Cultural Exchange Programs whose goal is to improve intercultural relations, cultural diplomacy, and intercultural competence between the people of the United States and other countries through the exchange of persons, knowledge, and skills. Via the program, competitively-selected American citizens including students, scholars, teachers, professionals, scientists and artists may receive scholarships or grants to study, conduct research, teach, or exercise their talents abroad; and citizens of other countries may qualify to do the same in the United States of America. The program was founded by United States Senator J. William Fulbright in 1946 and is considered to be one of the most widely recognized and prestigious scholarships in the world.[1] The program provides approximately 8,000 grants annually – roughly 1,600 to U.S. students, 1,200 to U.S. scholars, 4,000 to foreign students, 900 to foreign visiting scholars, and several hundred to teachers and professionals.[2] The Fulbright Program is administered by cooperating organizations such as the Institute of International Education and operates in over 160 countries around the world.[3] The Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs of the U.S. Department of State sponsors the Fulbright Program and receives funding from the United States Congress via annual appropriation bills. Additional direct and in-kind support comes from partner governments, foundations, corporations, and host institutions both in and outside the U.S.[4] In 49 countries, a bi-national Fulbright Commission administers and oversees the Fulbright Program. In countries that have an active program but no Fulbright Commission, the Public Affairs Section of the U.S. Embassy oversees the Fulbright Program. More than 370,000 people have participated in the program since it began; 60 Fulbright alumni have won Nobel Prizes; 86 have won Pulitzer Prizes.[5][6] Contents 1 History 2 Program 2.1 Student grants 2.2 Scholar grants 2.3 Teacher grants 2.4 Grants for professionals 2.5 Fulbright–Hays Program 3 Administration 4 Related organizations 5 Notable alumni 6 J. William Fulbright Prize for International Understanding 7 Bilateral Commissions 8 See also 9 References 10 External links History[edit] J. William Fulbright The Fulbright Program's mission is to bring a little more knowledge, a little more reason, and a little more compassion into world affairs and thereby increase the chance that nations will learn at last to live in peace and friendship.[7] —?Senator J. William Fulbright In 1945, Senator J. William Fulbright proposed a bill to use the proceeds from selling surplus U.S. government war property to fund international exchange between the U.S. and other countries. With the crucial timing of the aftermath of the Second World War and with the pressing establishment of the United Nations, the Fulbright Program was an attempt to promote peace and understanding through educational exchange. The bill devised a plan to forgo the debts foreign countries amassed during the war and in return for funding an international educational program. It was through the belief that this program would be an essential vehicle to promote peace and mutual understanding between individuals, institutions and future leaders wherever they may be.[8] On August 1, 1946, President Harry S. Truman signed the bill into law, and Congress created the Fulbright Program in what became the largest education exchange program in history. Since it began, the program has operated on a bi-national basis; each country active in the Fulbright Program has entered into an agreement with the U.S. government. The first countries to sign agreements were China in 1947 and Burma, the Philippines, and Greece in 1948.[8] Program[edit] Countries with active operating Fulbright Student and Fulbright Scholar programs (as of 2020[update]). Light shading indicates countries with just Fulbright Scholar programs.[9][10]   East Asia and the Pacific   Europe and Eurasia   Middle East and North Africa   South and Central Asia   Sub-Saharan Africa   Western Hemisphere Educational exchange can turn nations into people, contributing as no other form of communication can to the humanizing of international relations.[11] —?Senator J. William Fulbright The Fulbright Program works two ways: U.S. citizens may receive funding to go to a foreign country (U.S. Student Program, U.S. Scholar Program, Teacher Exchange Program, etc.) and non-U.S. citizens may go to the U.S. (Foreign Student Program, Visiting Scholar Program, Teacher Exchange Program, etc.). Candidates recommended for Fulbright grants have high academic achievement, a compelling project proposal or statement of purpose, demonstrated leadership potential, and flexibility and adaptability to interact successfully with the host community abroad. Fulbright grants are offered in almost all academic disciplines except clinical medical research involving patient contact. Fulbright grantees' fields of study span the fine arts, humanities, social sciences, mathematics, natural and physical sciences, and professional and applied sciences.[12] Student grants[edit] The Fulbright Degree Program funds graduate education for International Students wanting to study in the USA. Students need to apply for the scholarship from their home country and after a long process, they can pursue a Masters or Ph.D. in the United States.[13] The Fulbright U.S. Student Program offers fellowships for U.S. graduating college seniors, graduate students, young professionals and artists to research, study, or teach English abroad for one academic year. The Fulbright Foreign Student Program enables graduate students, young professionals and artists from abroad to conduct research and study in the United States. Some scholarships are renewed after the initial year of study. The Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant Program provides opportunities for young English teachers from overseas to refine their teaching skills and broaden their knowledge of American culture and society while strengthening the instruction of foreign languages at colleges and universities in the United States. The International Fulbright Science and Technology Award, a component of the Fulbright Foreign Student Program, supports doctoral study at leading U.S. institutions in science, technology, engineering or related fields for outstanding foreign students. This program is currently on hiatus. The Fulbright-mtvU Fellowships award up to four U.S. students the opportunity to study the power of music as a cultural force abroad. Fellows conduct research for one academic year on projects of their own design about a chosen musical aspect. They share their experiences during their Fulbright year via video reports, blogs and podcasts. The Fulbright-Clinton Fellowship provides the opportunity for U.S. students to serve in professional placements in foreign government ministries or institutions to gain hands-on public sector experience in participating foreign countries.[14] Scholar grants[edit] The Fulbright Distinguished Chair Awards comprise approximately forty distinguished lecturing, distinguished research and distinguished lecturing/research awards ranging from three to 12 months. Fulbright Distinguished Chair Awards are viewed as among the most prestigious appointments in the U.S. Fulbright Scholar Program. Candidates should be eminent scholars and have a significant publication and teaching record. The Fulbright Bicentennial Chair in American Studies at the University of Helsinki brings scholars of various disciplines to Finland. The Bicentennial Chair is open to senior faculty with outstanding publication and teaching credentials and is also considered to be among the most prestigious Fulbright appointments. The Fulbright U.S. Scholar Program sends American faculty members, scholars and professionals abroad to lecture or conduct research for up to a year. The Fulbright Specialist Program sends U.S. academics and professionals to serve as expert consultants on curriculum, faculty development, institutional planning, and related subjects at overseas institutions for a period of two to six weeks. The Fulbright Visiting Scholar Program and Fulbright Scholar-in-Residence Program bring foreign scholars to lecture or conduct post-doctoral research for up to a year at U.S. colleges and universities.[14] The Fulbright Regional Network for Applied Research (NEXUS) Program is a network of junior scholars, professionals and mid-career applied researchers from the United States, Brazil, Canada, and other Western Hemisphere nations in a year-long program that includes multi-disciplinary, team-based research, a series of three seminar meetings, and a Fulbright exchange experience. Teacher grants[edit] The Fulbright Teacher Exchange Program supports one-to-one exchanges of teachers from K–12 schools and a small number of post-secondary institutions. The Distinguished Fulbright Awards in Teaching Program sends teachers abroad for a semester to pursue individual projects, conduct research, and lead master classes or seminars.[14] Grants for professionals[edit] The Hubert H. Humphrey Program brings outstanding mid-career professionals from the developing world and societies in transition to the United States for one year. Fellows participate in a non-degree program of academic study and gain professional experience. The Fulbright U.S. Scholar Program sends American scholars and professionals abroad to lecture or conduct research for up to a year. The Fulbright Specialist Program sends U.S. faculty and professionals to serve as expert consultants on curriculum, faculty development, institutional planning, and related subjects at overseas academic institutions for a period of two to six weeks. The Fulbright U.S. Student Program offers fellowships for U.S. graduating seniors, graduate students, young professionals and artists to study abroad for one academic year. The Program also includes an English Teaching Assistant component. The Fulbright Foreign Student Program enables graduate students, young professionals and artists from abroad to conduct research and study in the United States. Some scholarships are renewed after the initial year of study.[14] Fulbright–Hays Program[edit] A portion of the Fulbright Program is a Congressional appropriation to the United States Department of Education for the Fulbright–Hays Program. These grants are awarded to individual U.S. K through 14 pre-teachers, teachers and administrators, pre-doctoral students and post-doctoral faculty, as well as to U.S. institutions and organizations. Funding supports research and training efforts overseas, which focus on non-western foreign languages and area studies.[15] Administration[edit] The program is coordinated by the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs (ECA) of the U.S. Department of State under policy guidelines established by the Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board (FSB), with the help of 50 bi-national Fulbright commissions, U.S. embassies, and cooperating organizations in the U.S.[4] The United States Department of State is responsible for managing, coordinating and overseeing the Fulbright program. Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs is the bureau in the Department of State that has primary responsibility for the administration of the program. The Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board is a twelve-member board of educational and public leaders appointed by the President of the United States that determines general policy and direction for the Fulbright Program and approves all candidates nominated for Fulbright Scholarships. Bi-national Fulbright commissions and foundations, most of which are funded jointly by the U.S. and partner governments, develop priorities for the program, including the numbers and categories of grants. More specifically, they plan and implement educational exchanges, recruit and nominate candidates for fellowships; designate qualified local educational institutions to host Fulbrighters; fundraise; engage alumni; support incoming U.S. Fulbrighters; and, in many countries, operate an information service for the public on educational opportunities in the United States.[16] In a country active in the program without a Fulbright commission, the Public Affairs Section of the U.S. Embassy administers the Fulbright Program, including recruiting and nominating candidates for grants to the U.S., overseeing U.S. Fulbrighters on their grant in the country, and engaging alumni. Established in 1919 in the aftermath of World War I, the Institute of International Education was created to catalyze educational exchange. In 1946, the U.S. Department of State invited IIE to administer the graduate student component and CIES to administer the faculty component of the Fulbright Program—IIE's largest program to date.[17] The Council for International Exchange of Scholars is a division of IIE that administers the Fulbright Scholar Program. AMIDEAST administers Fulbright Foreign Student grants for grantees from the Middle East and North Africa (except Israel). LASPAU: Affiliated with Harvard University[18] LASPAU brings together a valuable network of individuals, institutions, leaders and organizations devoted to building knowledge-based societies across the Americas. Among other functions, LASPAU administers the Junior Faculty Development Program, a part of the Fulbright Foreign Student Program, for grantees from Central and South America and the Caribbean. World Learning administers the Fulbright Specialist Program.[19] American Councils for International Education (ACTR/ACCELS) administers the Junior Faculty Development Program (JFDP), a special academic exchange for grantees from the Caucasus, Central Asia, and Southeast Europe. The Academy for Educational Development administers the Fulbright Classroom Teacher Exchange Program and the Distinguished Fulbright Awards in Teaching Program. Related organizations[edit] The Fulbright Association is an organization independent of the Fulbright Program and not associated with the U.S. Department of State. The Fulbright Association was established on Feb. 27, 1977, as a private nonprofit, membership organization with over 9,000 members. The late Arthur Power Dudden was its founding president. He wanted alumni to educate members of the U.S. Congress and the public about the benefits of advancing increased mutual understanding between the people of the United States and those of other countries. In addition to the Fulbright Association in the U.S., independent Fulbright Alumni associations exist in over 75 countries around the world. The Fulbright Academy is an organization independent of the Fulbright Program and not associated with the U.S. Department of State. A non-partisan, non-profit organization with members worldwide, the Fulbright Academy focuses on the professional advancement and collaboration needs among the 100,000+ Fulbright alumni in science, technology and related fields. The Fulbright Academy works with individual and institutional members, Fulbright alumni associations and other organizations interested in leveraging the unique knowledge and skills of Fulbright alumni. Notable alumni[edit] Fulbright alumni have occupied key roles in government, academia, and industry. Of the 325,000+ alumni: 86 have received the Pulitzer Prize[5] 75 have been MacArthur Fellows[5] 60 have received a Nobel Prize[5] 37 have served as head of state or government[20][5] 10 have been elected to US Congress 1 has served as secretary general of the United Nations The following list is a selected group of notable Fulbright grant recipients: William D. "Bro" Adams, university administrator and NEH Chair (2014–2017) Edward Albee, recipient (three times) of the Pulitzer Prize for Drama Karim Alrawi, recipient of the Samuel Beckett Award for the Performing Arts Francis Andersen, Australian Hebrew and biblical studies scholar John Ashbery, American poet[21] Boutros Boutros-Ghali, Egyptian politician and Secretary-General of the United Nations, 1992-1996 Michael Broyde (born 1964), American law professor Fernando Henrique Cardoso, President of Brazil from 1995 to 2002,[22] Kyle Carey, Celtic American musician[23] Bob Carr, Australian politician[24] Ron Castan, Australian Constitutional law barrister[25] Lenora Champagne, playwright, performance artist and director[26] Dante R. Chialvo, scientist.[27] Dale Chihuly, glass sculptor and entrepreneur.[28] George C. Clerk, Ghanaian botanist and plant pathologist pioneer [29][30] Nathan Collett, filmmaker[31] Aaron Copland, recipient of the Pulitzer Prize for Music Leah Curtis, Australian composer[32] Myanna Dellinger, Danish-American law professor Arthur Deshaies, artist, printmaker, professor and head of the graphic workshop, Florida State University [33] Rita Dove, U.S. Poet Laureate and recipient of the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry Eugenia Del Pino, developmental biologist, Ecuadorian Eric Foner, recipient of the Pulitzer Prize for History John Hope Franklin, historian Maryellen Fullerton, lawyer and law professor and interim dean at Brooklyn Law School Radhika Gajjala, a communications and a cultural studies professor, Ashraf Ghani, the President of Afghanistan,[34] Gabrielle Giffords, United States Representative for Arizona's 8th congressional district Robert A. Gorman (born 1937), law professor at the University of Pennsylvania Law School Wendy Greengross (1925–2012), general practitioner and broadcaster[35] Nigel Healey, Vice Chancellor, Fiji National University Robert Hess (1938-1994), President of Brooklyn College John Honnold (1915-2011), American law professor at the University of Pennsylvania Law School Rahul M. Jindal, Indian-American transplant surgeon at Uniformed Services University. Roberta Karmel (born 1937), Centennial Professor of Law at Brooklyn Law School, and first female Commissioner of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Suzanne Klotz, painter and sculptor[36] Karen LaMonte, sculptor[37] John Lithgow, actor Dolph Lundgren, actor Jamil Mahuad, President of Ecuador from 1998 to 2000 Robert Nozick,[38] American political philosopher Linus Pauling, awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry and the Nobel Peace Prize Sylvia Plath, poet, recipient of the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry in 1982 Ian Rankin, author Theodore Roethke, poet, recipient of the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry in 1954 and the National Book Award for Poetry in 1959 and 1965 Juan Manuel Santos, the former President of Colombia from 2010 and 2018,[39] Philip Schultz poet[40] Heather J. Sharkey, historian of the Middle East and Africa at the University of Pennsylvania, Marshall Scholar Wallace Shawn, actor and playwright Jane Smiley, recipient of the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction Robert S. Summers, law professor at Cornell Law School Sasha Velour, drag queen, artist, and winner of season nine of RuPaul's Drag Race Eudora Welty, recipient of the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction David J. Whittaker, historian C. Vann Woodward, recipient of the Pulitzer Prize for History Charles Wright, American poet[40] James Wright, American poet[41] Muhammad Yunus, awarded the Nobel Peace Prize Rishi Sunak, Chancellor of the Exchequer J. William Fulbright Prize for International Understanding[edit] The J. William Fulbright Prize for International Understanding, established in 1993, is awarded by the Fulbright Association to recognize individuals or organisations which have made extraordinary contributions toward bringing peoples, cultures, or nations to greater understanding of others. The recipients are listed below. Person Year Country Nelson Mandela 1993  South Africa Jimmy Carter 1994  United States Franz Vranitzky 1995  Austria Corazon Aquino 1996  Philippines Václav Havel 1997  Czech Republic Patricio Aylwin 1998  Chile Mary Robinson 1999  Ireland Martti Ahtisaari 2000  Finland Kofi Annan 2001  Ghana Sadako Ogata 2002  Japan Fernando Henrique Cardoso 2003  Brazil Colin Powell 2004  United States Bill Clinton 2006  United States Desmond Tutu 2008  South Africa Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation 2010  United States Médecins Sans Frontières 2012  France Hans Blix 2014  Sweden Richard Lugar 2016  United States Angela Merkel 2018  Germany Bilateral Commissions[edit] The Fulbright Program has Commissions in 49 of the over 160 countries with which it has bilateral partnerships. These foundations are funded jointly by the U.S. and partner governments. The role of the Fulbright Commissions is to plan and implement educational exchanges; recruit and nominate candidates, both domestic and foreign, for fellowships; designate qualified local educational institutions to host Fulbrighters; and support incoming U.S. Fulbrighters while engaging with alumni.[42] Below is a list of current commissions. Region Country Commission East Asia and the Pacific  Australia The Australian-American Fulbright Commission  Indonesia American-Indonesian Exchange Foundation  Japan Japan-United States Educational Commission  Korea Korean-American Educational Commission  Malaysia Malaysian-American Commission on Educational Exchange  New Zealand New Zealand-United States Educational Foundation  The Philippines Philippine-American Educational Foundation  Taiwan Foundation for Scholarly Exchange  Thailand Thailand-U.S. Educational Foundation Europe and Eurasia  Austria Austrian-American Educational Commission  Belgium Commission for Educational Exchange Between the United States, Belgium and Luxembourg  Bulgaria Bulgarian-American Commission for Educational Exchange  Czech Republic J. William Fulbright Commission for Educational Exchange in the Czech Republic  Denmark Fulbright Denmark  Finland Fulbright Finland Foundation  France Franco-American Commission for Educational Exchange  Germany German-American Fulbright Commission  Greece U.S. Educational Foundation in Greece  Hungary Hungarian-American Commission for Educational Exchange  Iceland Iceland-United States Educational Commission  Ireland The Ireland-United States Commission for Educational Exchange  Italy The U.S.-Italy Fulbright Commission  Netherlands Fulbright Commission the Netherlands  Norway U.S.-Norway Fulbright Foundation for Educational Exchange  Poland Polish-U.S. Fulbright Commission  Portugal Commission for Educational Exchange Between the United States of America and Portugal  Romania Romanian-U.S. Fulbright Commission  Slovak Republic J. William Fulbright Commission for Educational Exchange in the Slovak Republic  Spain Commission for Cultural, Educational and Scientific Exchange Between the United States of America and Spain  Sweden Commission for Educational Exchange between the United States and Sweden  Turkey Commission for Educational Exchange Between the United States of America and Turkey  United Kingdom The United States-United Kingdom Fulbright Commission Middle East and North Africa  Egypt The Binational Fulbright Commission in Egypt  Israel U.S.-Israel Educational Foundation (USIEF)  Jordan Jordanian-American Commission for Educational Exchange (JACEE)  Morocco Moroccan-American Commission for Educational and Cultural Exchange South and Central Asia  India United States-India Educational Foundation    Nepal Commission for Educational Exchange between the United States and Nepal (USEF/Nepal)  Pakistan United States Educational Foundation in Pakistan  Sri Lanka United States-Sri Lanka Fulbright Commission Western Hemisphere  Argentina Commission for Educational Exchange Between the United States and the Argentine Republic  Brazil Commission for Educational Exchange between the United States of America and Brazil  Canada Foundation for Educational Exchange Between Canada and the United States of America  Chile Commission for Educational Exchange Between the United States of America and Chile  Colombia Commission for Educational Exchange Between the United States of America and Colombia  Ecuador Commission for Educational Exchange Between the United States of America and Ecuador  Mexico Mexico-United States Commission for Educational and Cultural Exchange  Peru Commission for Educational Exchange Between the United States and Peru  Uruguay Fulbright Uruguay See also[edit] Academic mobility Belgian American Educational Foundation (BAEF) Chevening Scholarship Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation EducationUSA Erasmus Programme German Academic Exchange Service (Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst) Goodwill Scholarships Harkness Fellowship ITT International Fellowship Program Jürgen Mulert Marshall Scholarship Gates Cambridge Scholarship Monbukagakusho Scholarship Rhodes Scholarship Yenching Scholarship Jardine Scholarship References[edit] ^ "Get Noticed Through Prestigious Scholarships". U.S. News & World Report. November 25, 2011. Archived from the original on March 22, 2018. Retrieved March 22, 2018. ^ "Fulbright Scholar Program: About Us". Comparative and International Education Society. Archived from the original on 2017-06-21. Retrieved 2017-06-23. ^ "IIE Programs". Institute of International Education. Archived from the original on 2014-07-28. Retrieved 2014-07-28. ^ a b "Fulbright Program Fact Sheet" (PDF). U.S. Department of State. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2014-09-23. Retrieved 2013-12-16. ^ a b c d e "Notable Fulbrighters". U.S. Department of State. Archived from the original on 2017-05-20. Retrieved 2017-05-20. ^ Morello, Carol (June 8, 2017). "That knock on a congressman's door could be a Fulbright scholar with a tin cup". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on June 12, 2018. Retrieved June 9, 2018. ^ "J. William Fulbright Quotes". Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Archived from the original on 2018-06-12. Retrieved 2018-06-09. ^ a b "Fulbright: The Early Years". U.S. Department of State. Archived from the original on 2013-05-07. Retrieved 2013-12-16. ^ https://us.fulbrightonline.org/countries ^ https://eca.state.gov/fulbright/fulbright-programs/program-details-country ^ "Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs: About Fulbright". U.S. Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Archived from the original on 2018-06-09. Retrieved 2018-06-09. ^ "Fields of Study/Project Topics". U.S. Department of State. Archived from the original on 2013-10-22. Retrieved 2013-12-16. ^ admin (2020-02-16). "Fulbright Scholarship 2020 - Step-Wise Guide | Scholar Den". SD GRE Blog. Retrieved 2020-02-19. ^ a b c d "Which Grant Is Right For Me? – Fulbright – International Educational Exchange Program". eca.state.gov. 2008-01-31. Archived from the original on 2012-11-20. Retrieved 2012-06-11. ^ "Archived: International Education Programs Service – Fulbright–Hays Programs: The World is Our Classroom". ed.gov. Archived from the original on 2012-07-08. Retrieved 2012-06-11. ^ "Fulbright Commissions". U.S. Department of State. Archived from the original on 2013-11-01. Retrieved 2013-12-16. ^ "History | Who We Are | Institute of International Education". Iie.org. Archived from the original on 2012-06-16. Retrieved 2012-06-11. ^ "LASPAU". Harvard University. Archived from the original on 2018-04-25. Retrieved 2018-04-23. ^ fulbrightspecialist.worldlearning.org/ ^ "Heads of State/Government". www.State.Gov. US State Department. March 6, 2020. Retrieved March 6, 2020. ^ Piccinnini, Douglas (2009). "Ashbery in Paris: Out of School". Jacket 2. Archived from the original on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 8 October 2015. ^ "Fernando Henrique Cardoso". Fulbright Association. Retrieved November 11, 2014. ^ "Featured Fulbrighter – Kyle Carey". Fulbright Canada. Archived from the original on 2018-06-12. Retrieved 2018-06-09. ^ Adams, Vanessa (August 29, 2017). "Announcing our Inaugural Conference Keynote - Professor the Hon Bob Carr". Fulbright Australia. Archived from the original on June 12, 2018. Retrieved June 9, 2018. ^ "ADJOURNMENT". ^ "Traps by Lenora Champagne". Old Stone House. Archived from the original on 2018-06-12. Retrieved 2018-06-09. ^ "CHIALVO NAMED FELLOW OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL SOCIETY". Northwestern University. Archived from the original on 2018-06-12. Retrieved 2018-06-09. ^ Lewis, Jo Ann (February 23, 1996). "GLASS THAT'LL BOWL YOU OVER". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on June 12, 2018. Retrieved June 9, 2018. ^ "In memoriam: George Carver Clerk, 87". Nature Research Ecology & Evolution Community. 2019-06-13. Retrieved 2019-06-13. ^ "Obituary of George Carver Clerk, 1931–2019" (PDF). ISPP Newsletter. International Society for Plant Pathology. 49 (7): 5. July 2019. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2019-07-01. Retrieved 2019-07-01. ^ "2006 Fellowship Recipients". University of Southern California. Archived from the original on 2018-06-12. Retrieved 2018-06-09. ^ "'New' alumnus wins prestigious Fulbright postgraduate award". New College, University of New South Wales. New College, University of New South Wales. Retrieved 28 October 2012. ^ "Arthur Emillien Deshaies". Spartanburg Herald-Journal. Spartanburg, South Carolina. 2011-08-03. p. 4. ^ "Ashraf Ghani Fast Facts". CNN. December 30, 2019. Retrieved February 25, 2020. ^ Bayfield, Tony. "Greengross [married name Katz, later Kates], Wendy Elsa (1925–2012)". ONDB. OUP. Retrieved 26 November 2017. ^ Klotz, Suzanne. "Fulbright Scholar". Fulbright Scholar Program. Archived from the original on 6 October 2016. Retrieved 18 March 2016. ^ Oldknow, Tina. "Meet the Artist: Karen LaMonte". Corning Museum of Glass. Retrieved February 28, 2008. ^ Juntin Wintle, Makers of modern culture, Routledge 2002. ^ "Laurels". Tufts Magazine. Medford, MA. 2010. ISSN 1535-5063. OCLC 45710313. Retrieved 5 July 2013. [permanent dead link] ^ a b "Fulbrighters & Pulitzer Prize Winners". U.S. Department of State. Archived from the original on 2012-06-16. Retrieved 2012-10-28. ^ Gray, Jeffrey (2005). Mastery's End: Travel and Postwar American Poetry. Athens, GA: UGA Press. p. 145. ISBN 9780820326634. Archived from the original on 10 June 2016. Retrieved 12 October 2015. ^ https://eca.state.gov/fulbright/about-fulbright/funding-and-administration/fulbright-commissions External links[edit] U.S. Department of State Fulbright Website, the program's sponsor Fulbright–Hays information, U.S. Department of Education Fulbright Student Program Homepage Fulbright Scholar Program, grants for university and college faculty, administrators and professionals Fulbright Teacher Exchange Programs, K–12 Teacher Exchange Directories of past grantees Fulbright Scholar Directory US Student Program Foreign Student Program v t e Laureates of the Prince/Princess of Asturias Award for International Cooperation 1980s 1981: José López Portillo 1982: Enrique V. Iglesias 1983: Belisario Betancur 1984: Contadora group 1985: Raúl Alfonsín 1986: University of Salamanca and University of Coimbra 1987: Javier Pérez de Cuéllar 1988: Óscar Arias 1989: Jacques Delors and Mikhail Gorbachev 1990s 1990: Hans-Dietrich Genscher 1991: UNHCR (United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees) 1992: Frederik W. de Klerk and Nelson Mandela 1993: United Nations Blue Berets stationed in Ex-Yugoslavia 1994: Yitzhak Rabin and Yasser Arafat 1995: Mário Soares 1996: Helmut Kohl 1997: Government of Guatemala and Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity 1998: Emma Bonino, Olayinka Koso-Thomas, Graça Machel, Fatiha Boudiaf, Rigoberta Menchú, Fatana Ishaq Gailani and Somaly Mam 1999: Pedro Duque, John Glenn, Chiaki Mukai and Valeri Polyakov 2000s 2000: Fernando Henrique Cardoso 2001: International Space Station 2002: The Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research 2003: Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva 2004: The European Union's Erasmus Programme 2005: Simone Veil 2006: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation 2007: Al Gore 2008: Manhiça Centre of Health Research (Mozambique), Ifakara Health Institute (Tanzania), Malaria Research and Training Centre (Mali) and Kintampo Health Research Centre (Ghana) 2009: World Health Organization 2010s 2010: The Transplantation Society and the Spanish National Transplant Organization 2011: Bill Drayton 2012: International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement 2013: Max Planck Society for the Advancement of Science 2014: Fulbright Program 2015: Wikipedia 2016: United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement 2017: The Hispanic Society of America 2018: Amref Health Africa 2019: Salman Khan and the Khan Academy Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fulbright_Program&oldid=946929072" Categories: Fulbright Scholars Fulbright Distinguished Chairs Academic transfer Student exchange Scholarships in the United States 1946 establishments in the United States American education awards Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs United States Department of State Government scholarships Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from February 2020 Articles with permanently dead external links Articles with short description Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2020 All articles containing potentially dated statements Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? ????????? Català Deutsch ???????? Español ????? Français ??? ??????? Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? Lietuvi? Magyar ?????? Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål O?zbekcha/??????? Polski Português ??????? Simple English Slovenš?ina ?????? / srpski Suomi Svenska Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 23 March 2020, at 06:36 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
