Glyph - Wikipedia Glyph From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search For other uses, see Glyph (disambiguation). Element of writing This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Glyph" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (June 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Various glyphs representing the lower case letter "a"; they are allographs of the grapheme "a" The adjacent characters long s and i (that would separately be represented by two distinct graphemes s and i) represented as a single glyph (typographic ligature) In typography, a glyph /?l?f/ is an elemental symbol within an agreed set of symbols, intended to represent a readable character for the purposes of writing. Glyphs are considered to be unique marks that collectively add up to the spelling of a word or contribute to a specific meaning of what is written, with that meaning dependent on cultural and social usage. Contents 1 Distinctions 2 Etymology 3 Graphonomics 4 Archaeology 5 See also 6 Notes 7 References 8 External links Distinctions[edit] In most languages written in any variety of the Latin alphabet, the dot on a lower-case i is not a glyph because it does not convey any distinction, and an i in which the dot has been accidentally omitted is still likely to be recognized correctly. However, in Turkish it is a glyph because that language has two distinct versions of the letter i, with and without a dot. Also, in Japanese syllabaries, a number of the characters are made up of more than one separate mark, but in general these separate marks are not glyphs because they have no meaning by themselves. However, in some cases, additional marks fulfill the role of diacritics, to differentiate distinct characters. Such additional marks constitute glyphs. In general, a diacritic is a glyph, even if it is contiguous with the rest of the character like a cedilla in French, the ogonek in several languages, or the stroke on a Polish "?". Some characters such as "æ" in Icelandic and the "ß" in German may be regarded as glyphs. They were originally ligatures, but over time have become characters in their own right; these languages treat them as separate letters. However, a ligature such as "?i", that is treated in some typefaces as a single unit, is arguably not a glyph as this is just a quirk of the typeface, essentially an allographic feature, and includes more than one grapheme. In normal handwriting, even long words are often written "joined up", without the pen leaving the paper, and the form of each written letter will often vary depending on which letters precede and follow it, but that does not make the whole word into a single glyph. Two or more glyphs which have the same significance, whether used interchangeably or chosen depending on context, are called allographs of each other. Etymology[edit] The term has been used in English since 1727, borrowed from glyphe (in use by French antiquaries since 1701), from the Greek ?????, glyph?, "carving," and the verb ???????, glýphein, "to hollow out, engrave, carve" (cognate with Latin glubere "to peel" and English cleave).[1] The word hieroglyph (Greek for sacred writing) has a longer history in English, dating from an early use in an English to Italian dictionary published by John Florio in 1598, referencing the complex and mysterious characters of the Egyptian alphabet.[2] The word glyph first came to widespread European attention with the engravings and lithographs from Frederick Catherwood's drawings of undeciphered glyphs of the Maya civilization in the early 1840s.[3] Graphonomics[edit] In graphonomics, the term glyph is used for a noncharacter, i.e. either a subcharacter or multicharacter pattern. Most typographic glyphs originate from the characters of a typeface. In a typeface each character typically corresponds to a single glyph, but there are exceptions, such as a font used for a language with a large alphabet or complex writing system, where one character may correspond to several glyphs, or several characters to one glyph. Archaeology[edit] Mayan glyph for Day 10 of the tzolkin calendar In archaeology, a glyph is a carved or inscribed symbol. It may be a pictogram or ideogram, or part of a writing system such as a syllable, or a logogram. A glyph is "the specific shape, design, or representation of a character".[4] It is a particular graphical representation, in a particular typeface, of an element of written language, which could be a grapheme, or part of a grapheme, or sometimes several graphemes in combination (a composed glyph[note 1]). If there is more than one allograph of a unit of writing, and the choice between them depends on context or on the preference of the author, they now have to be treated as separate glyphs, because mechanical arrangements have to be available to differentiate between them and to print whichever of them is required. The same is true in computing. In computing as well as typography, the term "character" refers to a grapheme or grapheme-like unit of text, as found in natural language writing systems (scripts). In typography and computing, the range of graphemes is broader than in a written language in other ways too: a typographical font often has to cope with a range of different languages each of which contribute their own graphemes, and it may also be required to print other symbols such as dingbats. The range of glyphs required increases correspondingly. In summary, in typography and computing, a glyph is a graphical unit.[5] See also[edit] Character encoding Complex text layout Diacritic HTML decimal character rendering Letterform Palaeography, the study of ancient writing Punchcutting Notes[edit] ^ For example, the sequence ?i contains two characters, but can be represented by one glyph, the two characters being combined into a single unit known as a ligature. Conversely, some older models of typewriters require the use of multiple glyphs to depict a single character, as an overstruck apostrophe and period to create an exclamation mark. References[edit] ^ see the Oxford English Dictionary under headword "cleave" for the cited Greek etymology. ^ "Home : Oxford English Dictionary". www.oed.com. Retrieved 21 February 2017. ^ "Maya". Ancientscripts.com. Archived from the original on 12 December 2010. Retrieved 6 February 2018. ^ Ilene Strizver. "Confusing (and Frequently Misused) Type Terminology, Part 1". fonts.com. Monotype Imaging. Missing or empty |url= (help) ^ Ken Whistler; Mark Davis; Asmus Freytag (11 November 2008). "Characters Vs Glyphs". www.unicode.org/reports/tr17/#CharactersVsGlyphs. Unicode. Missing or empty |url= (help) External links[edit] The dictionary definition of glyph at Wiktionary Media related to Glyphs at Wikimedia Commons v t e Typography Page Canons of page construction Column Even working Margin Page numbering Pagination Pull quote Recto and verso Paragraph Alignment Leading River Sentence spacing Widows and orphans Character Typeface anatomy Counter Diacritics Dingbat Glyph Initial Kerning Letter-spacing Ligature Rotation Subscript and superscript Swash Text figures Tittle Capitalization All caps Camel case Letter case Small caps Visual distinction Italics Oblique Bold Color printing Underline Blackboard bold Blackletter Vertical aspects Ascender Baseline Cap height Descender Median Overshoot x-height Classifications Roman type Antiqua Didone Sans-serif Script Serif Slab serif Reverse-contrast Blackletter type Fraktur Rotunda Schwabacher Gaelic type Insular Uncial Specialist Record type Punctuation Dashes Hanging punctuation Hyphen-minus Hyphenation Prime mark Quotation mark Typesetting Etaoin shrdlu Font computer monospaced Font catalog For position only Letterpress Lorem ipsum Microprinting Microtypography Movable type Pangram Phototypesetting Punchcutting Type color Type design Typeface list Typographic units Agate Cicero Em En Figure space Measure Paren space Pica Point traditional point-size names Proposed metric units Thin space Twip Digital typography Character encoding Hinting Rasterization Typographic features Web typography Related Calligraphy Intentionally blank page Style guide Type foundry History Intellectual property protection of typefaces Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Glyph&oldid=947277630" Categories: Archaeological terminology Graphemes Glyphs Infographics Typographical symbols Typography Hidden categories: Pages using web citations with no URL Articles with short description Use dmy dates from July 2012 Articles needing additional references from June 2010 All articles needing additional references Commons category link from Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? ????? Bân-lâm-gú ?????????? ????????? Català ?eština Cymraeg Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français Gaeilge Galego ??? Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Kreyòl ayisyen ?????????? N?huatl Nederlands ??? ??????? Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Occitan Polski Português Român? ??????? Scots Simple English Sloven?ina ?????? / srpski Suomi Svenska Tagalog ??? Türkçe ?????????? ???? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 25 March 2020, at 11:01 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Frank@Everett.com
