Gratis versus libre - Wikipedia Gratis versus libre From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (February 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article is written like a personal reflection, personal essay, or argumentative essay that states a Wikipedia editor's personal feelings or presents an original argument about a topic. Please help improve it by rewriting it in an encyclopedic style. (January 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) "Free as in freedom" redirects here. For the book, see Free as in Freedom. Free Beer sale on the Isummit 2008 illustrates "Free as in freedom, not free as in free beer": recipe and label shared openly under CC-BY-SA ("Free as in freedom") but not gratis ("free as in free beer") as the beer is sold for 500 Yen. Richard Stallman illustrating his famous sentence "Think free as in free speech, not free beer" with a beer glass. Brussels, RMLL, 9 July 2013 An advertising mascot dressed as a mug of beer, holding a sign saying "Piwo gratis" (Polish for "free beer") in the centre of Kraków, Poland, advertising beer being given away without charge. The English adjective free is commonly used in one of two meanings: "for free" (gratis) and "with little or no restriction" (libre). This ambiguity of free can cause issues where the distinction is important, as it often is in dealing with laws concerning the use of information, such as copyright and patents. The terms gratis and libre may be used to categorise intellectual property, particularly computer programs, according to the licenses and legal restrictions that cover them, in the free software and open source communities, as well as the broader free culture movement. For example, they are used to distinguish freeware (software gratis) from free software (software libre). Richard Stallman summarised the difference in a slogan: "Think free as in free speech, not free beer."[1] Contents 1 Gratis 2 Libre 3 "Free beer" vs "freedom of speech" distinction 4 Use in open-access academic publishing 4.1 Comparison with use in software 5 See also 6 Notes 7 References 7.1 Sources Gratis[edit] Gratis in English is adopted from the various Romance and Germanic languages, ultimately descending from the plural ablative and dative form of the first-declension noun gr?tia in Latin. It means "free" in the sense that some goods or service is supplied without need for payment, even though it may have value. Libre [edit] Libre /?li?br?/ in English is adopted from the various Romance languages, ultimately descending from the Latin word l?ber; its origin is closely related to liberty. It denotes "the state of being free", as in "liberty" or "having freedom". The Oxford English Dictionary (OED) considers libre to be obsolete,[2] but the word has come back into limited[a] use. Unlike gratis, libre appears in few English dictionaries,[a] although there is no other English single-word adjective signifying "liberty" exclusively, without also meaning "at no monetary cost". "Free beer" vs "freedom of speech" distinction [edit] In software development, where the cost of mass production is relatively small, it is common for developers to make software available at no cost. One of the early and basic forms of this model is called freeware. With freeware, software is licensed freely for regular use: the developer does not gain any monetary compensation. With the advent of the free software movement, license schemes were created to give developers more freedom in terms of code sharing, commonly called open source or free and open-source software (called FLOSS, FOSS, or F/OSS). As the English adjective free does not distinguish between "for free" and "liberty", the phrases "free as in freedom of speech" (libre, free software) and "free as in free beer" (gratis, freeware) were adopted. Many in the free software movement feel strongly about the freedom to use the software, make modifications, etc., whether or not this freely usable software is to be exchanged for money. Therefore, this distinction became important. "Free software" means software that respects users' freedom and community. Roughly, it means that the users have the freedom to run, copy, distribute, study, change and improve the software. Thus, "free software" is a matter of liberty, not price. To understand the concept, you should think of "free" as in "free speech," not as in "free beer". We sometimes call it "libre software," borrowing the French or Spanish word for "free" as in freedom, to show we do not mean the software is gratis. —?The Free Software Foundation[3] These phrases have become common, along with gratis and libre, in the software development and computer law fields for encapsulating this distinction.[b] The distinction is similar to the distinction made in political science between positive liberty and negative liberty. Like "free beer", positive liberty promises equal access by all without cost or regard to income, of a given good (assuming the good exists). Like "free speech", negative liberty safeguards the right to use of something (in this case, speech) without regard to whether in each case there is a cost involved for this use (you still have free speech even though it costs money to acquire a newspaper).[c] Use in open-access academic publishing[edit] Main article: Open access In order to reflect real-world differences in the degree of open access, the distinction between gratis open access and libre open access was added in 2006 by two of the co-drafters of the original Budapest Open Access Initiative definition of open access publishing.[4] Gratis open access refers to online access free of charge (which Wikipedia indicates with the icon ), and libre open access refers to online access free of charge plus some additional re-use rights (Wikipedia icon ).[4] Libre open access is equivalent to the definition of open access in the Budapest Open Access Initiative, the Bethesda Statement on Open Access Publishing and the Berlin Declaration on Open Access to Knowledge in the Sciences and Humanities. The re-use rights of libre OA are often specified by various specific Creative Commons licenses;[5] these almost all require attribution of authorship to the original authors.[4][6] Comparison with use in software[edit] The original gratis/libre distinction concerns software (i.e., code), with which users can potentially do two[citation needed] kinds of things: 1. access and use it; and 2. modify and re-use it. "Gratis" pertains to being able to access and use the code, without a price-barrier, while "libre" pertains to being allowed to modify and re-use the code, without a permission barrier. The target content of the open access movement, however, is not software but published, peer-reviewed research journal article texts.[citation needed] 1. Source code accessibility and use. For published research articles, the case for making their text accessible free for all online (Gratis) is even stronger than it is for software code, because in the case of software, some developers may wish to give their code away for free, while others may wish to sell it, whereas in the case of published research article texts, all their authors, without exception, give them away for free: None seek or get royalties or fees from their sale.[7][dubious – discuss] On the contrary, any access-denial to potential users means loss of potential research impact (downloads, citations) for the author's research—and researcher-authors' employment, salary, promotion and funding depends in part on the uptake and impact of their research. 2. Source code modifiability and re-use. For published research articles, the case for allowing text modification and re-use is much weaker than for software code, because, unlike software, the text of a research article is not intended for modification and re-use. (In contrast, the content of research articles is and always was intended for modification and re-use: that is how research progresses.) There are no copyright barriers to modifying, developing, building upon and re-using an author's ideas and findings, once they have been published, as long as the author and published source are credited—but modifications to the published text are another matter. Apart from verbatim quotation, scholarly/scientific authors are not in general interested in allowing other authors to create "mashups" of their texts. Researcher-authors are all happy to make their texts available for harvesting and indexing for search as well as data-mining, but not for re-use in altered form (without the permission of the author). The formal analogy between open software and open access has been made,[8], along with the generalization of the gratis/libre distinction from the one field to the other. See also[edit] Alternative terms for free software Comparison of free and open-source software licenses Free software movement Gift economy Open content Open-source license Free Beer (free as freedom, not gratis) Notes[edit] ^ a b The Onelook dictionary website finds about 5 monoglot English dictionaries including "libre"; about 30 include "gratis" ^ For example, the free software definition clarifies the distinction in this way. ^ A quote from the Gnu free software definition was used in a section on positive and negative liberty by Guinevere Nell in Rediscovering Fire: Basic Economic Lessons From the Soviet Experiment, Algora, 2010. References[edit] ^ Lessig, Lawrence (September 2006). "Free, as in beer". Wired. Retrieved 18 March 2009. ^ OED.com, OED definition of libre: "Obs. Of the will: Free". Access to the OED is libre, but not gratis. ^ "What is free software?". GNU Operating System. Free Software Foundation, Inc. Retrieved 11 May 2018. ^ a b c Suber, Peter. 2008."Gratis and Libre Open Access". Retrieved on 2011-12-03. ^ Suber 2012, pp. 68–69 harvnb error: no target: CITEREFSuber2012 (help) ^ Suber, Peter (2012). Open access. MIT Press. pp. 7-8. ISBN 9780262517638. ^ Harnad, Stevan (2003) For Whom the Gate Tolls Journal of Postgraduate Medicine 49: 337-342 ^ Suber, Peter (2008) Gratis and libre open access SPARC Open Access Newsletter, August 2, 2008 Sources[edit] Free as in Speech and Beer, book by Darren Wershler-Henry Stallman's discussion of FreeAsInBeer Look up libre in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Look up gratis or free of charge in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Look up free in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. v t e Free and open-source software General Alternative terms for free software Comparison of open-source and closed-source software Comparison of source-code-hosting facilities Free software Free software project directories Gratis versus libre Long-term support Open-source software Open-source software development Outline Software packages Audio Bioinformatics Codecs Collaboration Configuration management Device drivers Graphics Wireless Geophysics Health Mathematics Operating systems Programming languages Routing Statistics Television Video games Web applications Content management systems E-commerce Word processors Android apps iOS apps Commercial Trademarked Formerly proprietary Formerly open-source Community Free software movement History Open-source-software movement Organizations Events Licenses AFL Apache APSL Artistic Beerware Boost BSD CC0 CDDL EPL Free Software Foundation GNU GPL GNU LGPL ISC MIT MPL Ms-PL/RL Python Python Software Foundation License Sleepycat Unlicense WTFPL zlib Types and standards Comparison of free and open-source software licenses Contributor License Agreement Copyleft Debian Free Software Guidelines Definition of Free Cultural Works Free license The Free Software Definition The Open Source Definition Open-source license Permissive software license Public domain Viral license Challenges Digital rights management Firmware security Hardware restrictions License proliferation Mozilla software rebranding Proprietary device drivers Proprietary firmware Proprietary software SCO/Linux controversies Secure boot Software patents Software security Trusted Computing Related topics Forking GNU Manifesto Microsoft Open Specification Promise Open-core model Open-source hardware Shared Source Initiative Source-available software The Cathedral and the Bazaar Revolution OS Free and open-source software portal Category Book Free and open-source software portal Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gratis_versus_libre&oldid=944976290" Categories: English phrases Free software culture and documents Free software Hidden categories: Harv and Sfn template errors Articles lacking in-text citations from February 2014 All articles lacking in-text citations Wikipedia articles with style issues from January 2020 All articles with style issues Articles with multiple maintenance issues Use dmy dates from October 2015 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from February 2017 All accuracy disputes Articles with disputed statements from August 2014 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Asturianu Dansk Español ????? ?????? ????? Nederlands Edit links This page was last edited on 11 March 2020, at 01:44 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
George@Emil.org
