Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity - Wikipedia Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article relies too much on references to primary sources. Please improve this by adding secondary or tertiary sources. (December 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity Unidad Revolucionaria Nacional Guatemalteca Abbreviation URNG-MAIZ General Secretary Gregorio Chay Founded 7 February 1982 Legalised 18 December 1998 Merger of EGP FAR ORPA PGT PGT-NDN Headquarters Guatemala City Ideology Communism[1] Marxism–Leninism[1] Castroism[2] Guevarism[2] Socialism[1] Left-wing populism[3] Bolivarianism[4] Chavismo[5] Socialism of the 21st century[5] Anti-capitalism[6] Political position Far-left[1] Regional affiliation Foro de São Paulo Colors Red, Green, Yellow (logo) Blue, White (flag) Congress 3 / 160 Party flag Website www.urng-maiz.org.gt Politics of Guatemala Political parties Elections The Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity (in Spanish: Unidad Revolucionaria Nacional Guatemalteca, URNG-MAIZ or most commonly URNG) is a Guatemalan political party that started as a guerrilla movement but laid down its arms in 1996 and became a legal political party in 1998 after the peace process which ended the Guatemalan Civil War. Contents 1 Formation 2 Civil war 3 Peace process and legal opposition party 4 See also 5 References 6 External links Formation[edit] Since the CIA-backed coup in 1954, opposition groups were continuously forming in an attempt to fight against the repression that the military and wealthy landowners in Guatemala had created.[7] The UNRG formed as a leftist umbrella organization consisting of four groups: the Guerrilla Army of the Poor (EGP), the Revolutionary Organization of People in Arms (ORPA), the Rebel Armed Forces (FAR) and the National Directing Nucleus of PGT (PGT-NDN). They became the public face of the long-running insurgency against the Guatemalan government throughout the Civil War. The URNG led the leftist opposition in peace negotiations with the conservative Guatemalan government. These negotiations began in 1987, and brought the end of the civil war when negotiations finished in 1996. They received support from Guatemala's rural poor as well as from urban intellectuals.[8] Civil war[edit] In March 1982, only one month after their formation, the URNG experienced an attack ordered by then president, retired General Efraín Ríos Montt. Backed by the CIA, Ríos Montt led a "scorched-earth" counter-insurgency campaign against the URNG and its supporters until he was toppled the following year. The URNG employed ambushes and raids on government security forces as their main tactic, and also performed bombings and assassinations. They attacked the military, government officials, as well as foreign diplomats and foreign businesses. The government responded with undercover death-squads, supported by the police and military, who undertook the mission to take down prominent leftists.[8] By the time a civilian government returned to office in 1986, the URNG recognized that coming to power through armed struggle was out of the question, and they took initiatives to negotiate a political solution. According to a report in NACLA's Report on the Americas (May/June 1997), The government and army maintained that since they had "defeated" the URNG, they had no need to negotiate until the guerrillas had laid down their arms. The subsequent settlements ending the wars in Nicaragua and El Salvador stiffened the elites' resolve "never" to permit such an outcome in Guatemala. The Guatemalan Civil War was a bloody affair that lasted 36 years. The URNG functioned as an umbrella organization to represent the leftist beliefs amongst the Guatemalan people, particularly the Guatemalan poor. Although they were involved in attacks, their primary function was at the negotiation table with the Guatemalan government.[citation needed] From 1986 to 1996, the army and government were drawn into a peace process moderated and verified by the United Nations and including other international actors as key players. Both sides made major concessions. The Oslo Agreement (set in place by the UN) provided an arrangement for direct negotiation between the belligerent groups. This open negotiation led to the signing of the "Agreement on Procedures in Search of Peace by Political Means" in Mexico in 1991. The United Nations presided over these changes meant to create a long-lasting peace.[9] Obligations were imposed on the government, including significant constitutional reforms, which were internationally binding and would be verified by the UN. In 1987 URNG substituted PGT-NDN for the Guatemalan Party of Labour (PGT) in its leadership. The political party is interested in disarmament, demobilization and integration process as outlined by the United Nations. It is now a peaceful political party that is part of the New Alliance Bloc. Peace process and legal opposition party[edit] On 29 December 1996, a peace agreement was signed by the government and the URNG in the presence of UN Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, officially ending the 36-year civil war. The Secretary-General of the URNG, Comandante Rolando Morán and president Álvaro Arzú jointly received the UNESCO Peace Prize for their efforts to end the civil war and attain the peace agreement. The UNRG has since apologized for the atrocities that occurred during the Guatemalan Civil War, asking forgiveness from all victims, families and other who experienced any kind of excesses. This apology came two days after President Clinton admitted the role of the United States in a "dark and painful period" during the civil war in Guatemala.[10] In the legislative election, held on 9 November 2003, the party won 4.2% of the popular vote and 2 out of 158 seats in Congress. In the presidential election held the same day, its candidate Rodrigo Asturias won 2.6% of the popular vote. At the 2007 elections, the party won with 3.72% 2 seats in the congressional elections. In the presidential election of the same day, its candidate Miguel Ángel Sandoval won 2.14% of the popular vote. See also[edit] History of Guatemala Guatemalan Civil War References[edit] ^ a b c d http://www.urng-maiz.org.gt/2018/09/el-69-aniversario-del-pgt-y-el-compromiso-con-la-revolucion-socialista/ ^ a b http://www.urng-maiz.org.gt/2015/05/fidel-castro-nuestro-derecho-a-ser-marxistas-leninistas/ ^ https://www.urng-maiz.org.gt/2015/05/urng-rechaza-la-ilegitima-eleccion-de-maldonado-aguirre/ ^ https://www.urng-maiz.org.gt/2017/08/rechazamos-intentona-derechista-por-aprobar-resolucion-contra-venezuela/ ^ a b http://www.urng-maiz.org.gt/2017/08/nos-unimos-a-rechazo-por-amenazas-de-intervencion-contra-pueblo-y-gobierno-de-venezuela/ ^ [1] ^ "End of Spring". Archived from the original on 2016-10-01. Retrieved 2011-07-02. ^ a b "Terrorist Organization Profile: Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity (URNG)". ^ Max Planck; Jochen Abr Frowein. Yearbook of United Nations Law 1998. p. 251. ^ "Article Collections: Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity". The New York Times. External links[edit] Official URNG website The Guatemalan peace process (Accord magazine, 1997) v t e Political parties in Guatemala Parties in Congress National Unity of Hope† Vamos Valor National Change Union† Bienestar Nacional Semilla Todos Vision with Values† National Convergence Front† Humanist Commitment, Renewal and Order† Winaq Victory Citizen Prosperity Unionist Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity National Advancement Party† Podemos Movement for the Liberation of Peoples Extra-parliamentary New Citizenship* Defunct parties Liberal Party Conservative Party Unionist Party (1920) National Renovation Party Popular Liberation United Front of Arevalist Parties Popular Liberation Front Revolutionary Action Party National Integrity Party Socialist Party National Democratic Reconciliation Party Anti-Communist Unification Party Democratic Unity Party People's Party Guatemalan Social Harmony Party Authentic Revolutionary Front of Socialist Orientation Popular Union Guatemalan Party of Labour National Anti-Communist Front Independent Anti-Communist Party of the West Revolutionary Party Movement of Action in Solidarity National Centre Union National Liberation Movement Guatemalan Christian Democracy Authentic Integral Development Central Aranista Organization New Nation Alternative Institutional Republican Party Social Action Centre Front for Democracy Democratic Union Patriotic Party Renewed Democratic Liberty Social Democratic Party Grand National Alliance Organized Revolution Party* Active Citizens of Electoral Formation Avanza United Productivity and Work Party Libre Fuerza Convergence Encounter for Guatemala Mi Pais Liberal Party † In process of cancellation; * In process of formation; ‡ Discontinued Portal:Politics List of political parties Politics of Guatemala v t e Laureates of the Prince/Princess of Asturias Award for International Cooperation 1980s 1981: José López Portillo 1982: Enrique V. Iglesias 1983: Belisario Betancur 1984: Contadora group 1985: Raúl Alfonsín 1986: University of Salamanca and University of Coimbra 1987: Javier Pérez de Cuéllar 1988: Óscar Arias 1989: Jacques Delors and Mikhail Gorbachev 1990s 1990: Hans-Dietrich Genscher 1991: UNHCR (United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees) 1992: Frederik W. de Klerk and Nelson Mandela 1993: United Nations Blue Berets stationed in Ex-Yugoslavia 1994: Yitzhak Rabin and Yasser Arafat 1995: Mário Soares 1996: Helmut Kohl 1997: Government of Guatemala and Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity 1998: Emma Bonino, Olayinka Koso-Thomas, Graça Machel, Fatiha Boudiaf, Rigoberta Menchú, Fatana Ishaq Gailani and Somaly Mam 1999: Pedro Duque, John Glenn, Chiaki Mukai and Valeri Polyakov 2000s 2000: Fernando Henrique Cardoso 2001: International Space Station 2002: The Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research 2003: Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva 2004: The European Union's Erasmus Programme 2005: Simone Veil 2006: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation 2007: Al Gore 2008: Manhiça Centre of Health Research (Mozambique), Ifakara Health Institute (Tanzania), Malaria Research and Training Centre (Mali) and Kintampo Health Research Centre (Ghana) 2009: World Health Organization 2010s 2010: The Transplantation Society and the Spanish National Transplant Organization 2011: Bill Drayton 2012: International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement 2013: Max Planck Society for the Advancement of Science 2014: Fulbright Program 2015: Wikipedia 2016: United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement 2017: The Hispanic Society of America 2018: Amref Health Africa 2019: Salman Khan and the Khan Academy Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Guatemalan_National_Revolutionary_Unity&oldid=944588140" Categories: 1982 establishments in Guatemala Bolivarianism Communist parties in Guatemala Formerly banned communist parties Foro de São Paulo Guatemalan Civil War Guerrilla movements in Latin America Left-wing militant groups Marxist parties Paramilitary organizations based in Guatemala Political parties established in 1982 Political parties in Guatemala Hidden categories: Articles lacking reliable references from December 2018 All articles lacking reliable references Pages using deprecated image syntax All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from October 2011 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Català Español Français Italiano Nederlands ?????? Norsk bokmål Polski Português ??????? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 8 March 2020, at 19:10 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Thomas@Joseph.gov.ca
