Mobile device - Wikipedia Mobile device From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Hand-held device) Jump to navigation Jump to search Small, hand-held computing device This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Mobile device" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (February 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) An iPhone smartphone and iPad tablet—two examples of mobile devices. A mobile device (or handheld computer) is a computer small enough to hold and operate in the hand. Typically, any handheld computer device will have an LCD or OLED flatscreen interface, providing a touchscreen interface with digital buttons and keyboard or physical buttons along with a physical keyboard. Many such devices can connect to the Internet and interconnect with other devices such as car entertainment systems or headsets via Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, cellular networks or near field communication (NFC). Integrated cameras, the ability to place and receive voice and video telephone calls, video games, and Global Positioning System (GPS) capabilities are common. Power is typically provided by a lithium battery. Mobile devices may run mobile operating systems that allow third-party apps specialized for said capabilities to be installed and run. Early smartphones were joined in the late 2000s by larger, but otherwise essentially the same, tablets. Input and output is now usually via a touch-screen interface. Phones/tablets and personal digital assistants may provide much of the functionality of a laptop/desktop computer but more conveniently, in addition to exclusive features. Enterprise digital assistants can provide additional business functionality such as integrated data capture via barcode, RFID and smart card readers. By 2010, mobile devices often contained sensors such as accelerometers, magnetometers and gyroscopes, allowing detection of orientation and motion. Mobile devices may provide biometric user authentication such as face recognition or fingerprint recognition. Major global manufacturers of mobile devices are Apple, Samsung, Huawei, Xiaomi, Sony, Google, HTC, LG, Motorola Mobility and Nokia. Contents 1 Characteristics 2 Types 3 Uses 4 See also 5 References 6 Sources Characteristics[edit] Device mobility can be viewed in the context of several qualities:[1] Physical dimensions and weight Whether the device is mobile or some kind of host to which it is attached is mobile To what kind of host devices can it be bound How devices communicate with a host When the mobility occurs Strictly speaking, many so-called mobile devices are not mobile. It is the host that is mobile, i.e., a mobile human host carries a non-mobile smartphone device. An example of a true mobile computing device, where the device itself is mobile, is a robot. Another example is an autonomous vehicle. There are three basic ways mobile devices can be physically bound to mobile hosts: accompanied, surface-mounted or embedded into the fabric of a host, e.g., an embedded controller embedded in a host device. Accompanied refers to an object being loosely bound and accompanying a mobile host, e.g., a smartphone can be carried in a bag or pocket but can easily be misplaced.[1] Hence, mobile hosts with embedded devices such as an autonomous vehicle can appear larger than pocket-sized. As stated earlier, the most common size of mobile computing device is pocket-sized that can be hand-held, but other sizes for mobile devices exist, too. Mark Weiser, known[by whom?] as the father of ubiquitous computing, computing everywhere, referred to device sizes that are tab-sized, pad and board sized,[2] where tabs are defined as accompanied or wearable centimetre-sized devices, e.g. smartphones, and pads are defined as hand-held decimetre-sized devices, e.g., laptops. If one changes the form of the mobile devices in terms of being non-planar, one can also have skin devices and tiny dust-sized devices.[1] Dust refers to miniaturised devices without direct HCI interfaces, e.g., micro electro-mechanical systems (MEMS), ranging from nanometres through micrometers to millimetres. See also Smart dust. Skin: fabrics based upon light emitting and conductive polymers and organic computer devices. These can be formed into more flexible non-planar display surfaces and products such as clothes and curtains, see OLED display. Also see smart device. Although mobility is often regarded[by whom?] as synonymous with having wireless connectivity, these terms are different. Not all network access by mobile users, applications and devices need be via wireless networks and vice versa. Wireless access devices can be static and mobile users can move in between wired and wireless hotspots such as in Internet cafés.[1] Some mobile devices can be used as mobile Internet devices to access the Internet while moving but they do not need to do this and many phone functions or applications are still operational even while disconnected to the Internet. What makes the mobile device unique compared to other technologies is the inherent flexibility in the hardware and also the software. Flexible applications include video chat, Web browsing, payment systems, NFC, audio recording etc.[3] As mobile devices become ubiquitous there, will be a proliferation of services which include the use of the cloud.[citation needed] Although a common form of mobile device, a smartphone, has a display, another perhaps even more common form of smart computing device, the smart card, e.g., used as a bank card or travel card, does not have a display. This mobile device often has a CPU and memory but needs to connect, or be inserted into a reader in order to display its internal data or state. Types[edit] Smartphones, handheld mobile devices There are many kinds of mobile devices, designed for different applications. This includes: Mobile computers Smartphone Tablet computer Calculator Digital media player Enterprise digital assistant Graphing calculator Handheld game console Handheld PC Laptop Mobile Internet device (MID) Personal digital assistant (PDA) Pocket calculator Portable media player Ultra-mobile PC Mobile phones Camera phones Feature phones Smartphones Digital cameras Digital camcorder Digital still camera (DSC) Digital video camera (DVC) Front-facing camera Pagers Personal navigation device (PND) Wearable computers Calculator watch Smartwatch Head-mounted display Smart cards Uses[edit] This section's tone or style may not reflect the encyclopedic tone used on Wikipedia. See Wikipedia's guide to writing better articles for suggestions. (February 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Handheld devices have become ruggedized for use in mobile field management. Uses include digitizing notes, sending and receiving invoices, asset management, recording signatures, managing parts, and scanning barcodes. In 2009, developments in mobile collaboration systems enabled the use of handheld devices that combine video, audio and on-screen drawing capabilities to enable multi-party conferencing in real-time, independent of location.[4] Handheld computers are available in a variety of form factors, including smartphones on the low end, handheld PDAs, Ultra-Mobile PCs and Tablet PCs (Palm OS, WebOS).[5] Users can watch television through Internet by IPTV on some mobile devices. Mobile television receivers have existed since the 1960s, and in the 21st century mobile phone providers began making television available on cellular phones.[6] In the 2010s, mobile devices can sync and share many data despite the distance or specifications of said devices. In the medical field, mobile devices are quickly becoming essential tools for accessing clinical information such as drugs, treatment, even medical calculation.[7] Due to the popularity of mobile gaming, the gambling industry started offering casino games on mobile devices, which in turn lead to inclusion of these devices in anti hazard legislature as devices that could potentially be used in illegal gambling. Other potentially illegal activities might include the use of mobile devices in distributing child pornography and the legal sex industry use of mobile apps and hardware to promote its activities, as well as the possibility of using mobile devices to perform trans-border services, which are all issues that need to be regulated. In the military, mobile devices have created new opportunities for the armed forces to deliver training and educational materials to soldiers, regardless of where they are stationed.[8] See also[edit] Converged device HTML5 in mobile devices List of emerging technologies Mobile interaction Near field communication (NFC) Portable communications device Smart device References[edit] ^ a b c d Poslad, Stefan (2009). Ubiquitous Computing Smart Devices, Smart Environments and Smart Interaction. Wiley. ISBN 978-0-470-03560-3. . ^ Weiser, Mark (1991). "The Computer for the Twenty-First Century". Scientific American. 265 (3): 94–104. doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0991-94. ^ Beddall-Hill, Nicola; Jabbar, Abdul & Al Shehri, Saleh (2011). "Social Mobile Devices as Tools for Qualitative Research in Education: iPhones and iPads in Ethnography, Interviewing, and Design-Based Research". Journal of the Research Center for Educational Technology. 7 (1): 67–90. ISSN 1948-075X. ^ Robbins, Renee (May 28, 2009). "Mobile video system visually connects global plant floor engineers". Control Engineering. Archived from the original on 2012-07-27. ^ Mellow, P. (2005).The media generation: Maximise learning by getting mobile. In Ascilite, 470–476 ^ Lotz, Amanda D. (2007). "The Television Will Be Revolutionized." New York, NY: New York University Press. p. 65-66 ^ Boruff & Storie, Jill & Dale (January 2014). "Mobile devices in medicine: a survey of how medical students, residents, and faculty use smartphones and other mobile devices to find information*". J Med Lib Assoc. Cite journal requires |journal= (help) ^ Casey, Mike (June 26, 2014). "Army seeks to increase use of mobile devices". ftleavenworthLamp.com. Sources[edit] "Mobile Devices". Library Technology Reports. 44 (5): 10–15. 2008. Hanson, C. W. (2011). "Chapter 2: Mobile Devices in 2011". Library Technology Reports. 47 (2): 11–23. v t e Major mobile device companies Companies with an annual revenue of over US$3 billion Acer Amazon Apple iPad iPhone Watch Asus BBK Electronics Oppo OnePlus Vivo Realme BlackBerry Limited Foxconn Sharp InFocus Essential Products Nokia Google Pixel Android One HTC HP Huawei Honor Lenovo Motorola Mobility LG Electronics Meizu Microsoft Mobile Microsoft Surface Phone Motorola Solutions HMD Global Nokia Panasonic Samsung Electronics Sony Mobile TCL BlackBerry Mobile Alcatel Mobile Palm Transsion Tecno Infinix Tinno Mobile Wiko True Xiaomi Redmi Pocophone Meitu ZTE Nubia Walton Mobile See also Largest IT companies Category:Mobile technology companies Category:Mobile phone manufacturers v t e Computer sizes Classes of computers Microcomputer, personal computer Stationary Workstation Desktop Home Personal supercomputer Portable Tabletop Smart TV Interactive kiosk Game arcade cabinet System board Home console Microconsole SFF Nettop Plug Smart speaker Mobile Laptop Desktop replacement 2-in-1 Subnotebook Netbook Smartbook Ultrabook Ultra-mobile PC Tablet Ultra-mobile PC 2-in-1 Phablet Tabletop Handheld Handheld PC Palmtop PC Pocket computer PDA Electronic organizer Mobile phone Feature phone Smartphone Phablet PMP E-reader Handheld game console Portable/Mobile data terminal Calculator Scientific Programmable Graphing Wearable Digital wristwatch Calculator watch Smartwatch Smartglasses Smart ring Midrange Minicomputer Supermini Large Super Mainframe Minisuper Others Microcontroller Nanocomputer Single-board computer Smartdust Wireless sensor network Server (Size independent) v t e Mobile operating systems Linux kernel Mainline Letux-OS Maemo Leste OpenEmbedded Ångström KaeilOS Openmoko Linux QtMoko SHR OpenEZX postmarketOS PureOS Out of tree AliOS Android forks Bada Chrome OS Firefox OS B2G OS KaiOS Maemo MeeGo Mer Sailfish OS Moblin MontaVista Mobilinux MotoMagx postmarketOS Tizen Ubuntu Touch UBports WebOS LuneOS XNU iOS iPadOS watchOS QNX BlackBerry 10 BlackBerry Tablet OS Windows Windows XP Tablet PC Edition Windows Mobile Windows Phone 7 8 8.1 Windows RT Windows 10 Mobile Windows 10 Zircon Fuchsia Other BREW BlackBerry OS EPOC FreeRTOS GEOS Harmony OS LiteOS Magic Cap Nintendo 3DS Nintendo DSi Nintendo Switch Nokia Asha platform PalmDOS Palm OS PlayStation PSP PS Vita S30 S30+ S40 Symbian S60 S80 S90 UIQ Comparison of mobile OSes Open-source mobile phones/OSes Open Handset Alliance Open Mobile Alliance Mobile app distributions Mobile app development Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mobile_device&oldid=947214355" Categories: Information appliances Mobile computers Personal digital assistants Hidden categories: CS1 errors: missing periodical Articles with short description Articles needing additional references from February 2020 All articles needing additional references Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from August 2015 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from August 2015 Wikipedia articles with style issues from February 2020 All articles with style issues Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiversity Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Ænglisc ??????? Asturianu ??????? ????????? Català ?eština Cymraeg Deutsch Eesti Español ????? Français ??? Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano Kurdî ????????? Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Polski Português Român? ??????? Simple English Sloven?ina ?????? / srpski Svenska Türkçe Ti?ng Vi?t Võro ?? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 25 March 2020, at 00:04 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Franklin@George.org
