Henryk Batuta hoax - Wikipedia Henryk Batuta hoax From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (April 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) The real Batuta Street in Warsaw. The Henryk Batuta hoax was a hoax perpetrated on the Polish Wikipedia from November 2004 to February 2006, the main element of which was a biographical article about a nonexistent socialist revolutionary. Contents 1 History 2 Content of the hoax article 3 References 3.1 Polish History[edit] The perpetrators of the hoax created an article about Henryk Batuta (born Izaak Apfelbaum), a fictional socialist revolutionary and Polish Communist. The fake biography said Batuta was born in Odessa in 1898, and participated in the Russian Civil War. The article was created on November 8, 2004,[1] and was exposed as a hoax 16 months later when it was deleted on February 5, 2006.[2] The article was ten sentences long while it existed on Polish Wikipedia. It gained some prominence after stories about it appeared in prominent Polish newspapers (Gazeta Wyborcza) and magazines (Przekrój), as well as a British one (The Observer).[citation needed] The article also falsely claimed a street in Warsaw was named "Henryk Batuta Street", after the fictional communist official. The anonymous hoaxers who created the article, according to the press calling themselves "The Batuta Army" (pl. "Armia Batuty"), allegedly wanted to draw attention to the fact that there are still places in Poland named after former communist officials who "do not deserve the honour".[3] The hoax was exposed when the article was listed for deletion. Even after the article was exposed as a well-organized hoax, its perpetrators tried to convince others of its authenticity by providing false bibliographical information and even by uploading a doctored photograph of a street name "ulica Henryka Batuty" (Henryk Batuta Street). The mystification was "officially" exposed and confirmed on 9 February 2006, when the Polish daily Gazeta Wyborcza[4] and weekly Przekrój published their articles about the hoax.[citation needed] There is an "ulica Batuty" (Batuta Street) in Warsaw;[5] however, the name comes from the Polish word "batuta", which means "conductor's baton". In this area of the S?u?ew district there are many street names relating to music and this is one of them.[6] Content of the hoax article[edit] An English translation of the hoax article as it appeared on the Polish Wikipedia on 1 February 2006, when it was finally exposed as a hoax.[7] Henryk Batuta, real name Izaak Apfelbaum, (born 1898 in Odessa – died 1947 near Ustrzyki Górne) was a Polish communist and an activist in the international workers' movement. Ul. Henryka Batuty. A participant of the Russian civil war, he joined the Communist Party of Poland after returning home. Enforcing party sentences, he organised assassinations of undercover political police informers; the killings were carried out by Wac?aw Komar, among others. Only in the fifties was this revealed. From 1934 to 1935 he was imprisoned in Bereza Kartuska, later he emigrated. He participated in the Spanish civil war. During World War II he stayed in the Soviet Union; in 1943 he joined the Union of Polish Patriots; he became the major of the Internal Security Corps. He died in 1947 near Ustrzyki Górne in a clash with the UPA. His figure is commemorated by a street in Warsaw (S?u?ew nad Dolink?). After 1989 many suggested renaming the street, but the name was never changed. References[edit] ^ 81.18.221.53 (November 8, 2004). "Henryk Batuta: Ró?nice pomi?dzy wersjami (Henryk Batuta: Differences between versions)". Polish Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation. Retrieved September 25, 2019. Batuta Henryk (w?a?ciwie: Apfelbaum Isaak) - ur. 1904 w Odessie, dzia?acz mn. ruchu robotniczego, cz?onek Komunistycznej Partii Polski, wi?ziony w Berezie Kartuskiej, w czasie wojny w ZSRR, cz?onek Zwi?zku Patriotów Polskich, major, zgin?? 1947 pod Ustrzykami Dolnymi. Jego osobie jest po?wi?cona ulica w Warszawie (S?u?ew nad Dolink?) (Batuta Henryk (actually: Apfelbaum Isaak) - born on 1904 in Odessa, activist of the workers' movement, a member of the Communist Party of Poland, imprisoned in Bereza Kartuska, during the war in the USSR, a member of the Union of Polish Patriots, a major, died in 1947 near Ustrzyki Dolne. A street in Warsaw (S?u?ew nad Dolinka) is dedicated to him) ^ "Wikipedia:SDU/Henryk Batuta". Polish Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation. February 5, 2006. Archived from the original on September 26, 2019. Retrieved September 25, 2019. ^ Tom Parfitt (February 11, 2006). "Bell tolls for Hemingway's fake comrade". The Guardian. Archived from the original on April 3, 2015. Retrieved August 25, 2015. ^ Godlewski, Konrad (9 February 2006). "Jak komunista Batuta katolików mordowa?". Gazeta Wyborcza (in Polish). Archived from the original on 2006-02-15. Retrieved 2019-08-17. ^ "mapa.szukacz.pl Batuta street in Warsaw". Archived from the original on 2017-11-11. Retrieved 2006-02-09. ^ Article on the S?u?ewiec nad Dolink? District with mention of its musical street names, including the Batuta Str: "Historia nad Dolink?". 25 lat Spó?dzielni Mieszkaniowej „S?u?ew nad Dolink?” w Warszawie (PDF) (in Polish). Spó?dzielnia Mieszkaniowa „S?u?ew nad Dolink?”. 2016. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2016-10-21. Retrieved 21 October 2016. ^ Henryk Batuta article on the Polish Wikipedia, 1 February 2006. Polish[edit] "Henryk Batuta". pl.wikipedia.org. Hoax article as it appeared just before being first listed for deletion. Polish Wikipedia. 2006-01-09. Konrad Godlewski (2006-02-09). "Jak komunista Batuta katolików mordowa?". Gazeta Wyborcza. Archived from the original on 2009-06-11. Retrieved 2006-02-09. "Henryk Batuta — ?y? 15 miesi?cy". Przekrój weekly. June 2006. Archived from the original on 2007-02-22. pl:Wikipedia:SDU/Henryk Batuta v t e Wikipedia Overview (Outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing Criticism gender bias ideological bias racial bias Deletionism and inclusionism MediaWiki Notability Reliability Vandalism Predictions of the project's end Community Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Citation needed Edit-a-thon "Ignore all rules" policy List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikipedian in residence WikiConference North America Wikimania WikiProject Women in Red People Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Erik Möller Ira Brad Matetsky Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales Wikipedians Wikimedian of the Year History Bomis Logo Controversies U.S. Congressional staff edits Essjay controversy Seigenthaler biography incident Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Italian Wikipedia blackout English Wikipedia blackout Hillsborough Wikipedia posts MyWikiBiz Lsjbot VisualEditor Art+Feminism #1Lib1Ref Honors 2008 Quadriga award Wikipedia Monument 2015 Erasmus Prize 2015 Princess of Asturias Award References and analysis Cultural Bibliography Films Academic studies Listen to Wikipedia Wiki-Watch Wikipediocracy WikiScanner Wikipedia Review Mobile access Apps QRpedia Wapedia WikiNodes Wikipedia Zero Wikiwand Content use Books LLC Boundless (company) DBpedia Deletionpedia Kiwix WikiReader Science information Health information Similar projects Interpedia Nupedia Citizendium Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Everipedia Veropedia List of online encyclopedias List of wikis Related Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs Print Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) 274301 Wikipedia Viola wikipedia List Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Henryk_Batuta_hoax&oldid=946322607" Categories: 2004 hoaxes 2004 in Poland History of Wikipedia Internet hoaxes Nonexistent people used in hoaxes Wikipedia controversies Fictional Polish people Hidden categories: CS1 Polish-language sources (pl) Articles lacking in-text citations from April 2019 All articles lacking in-text citations All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from June 2016 Articles containing Spanish-language text Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)? ?eština Dansk Esperanto Français ??? ??????? Bahasa Indonesia ????? Lietuvi? Bahasa Melayu Polski Português ??????? ?????????? Edit links This page was last edited on 19 March 2020, at 13:21 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
