Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Main Page From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Welcome to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 6,043,788 articles in English Arts Biography Geography History Mathematics Science Society Technology All portals From today's featured article Stanley McDougall The First Battle of Dernancourt was fought on 28 March 1918 near Dernancourt in northern France during World War I. Two Australian divisions had been sent south from Belgium to help stem the tide of the German Spring Offensive towards Amiens and, with the British 35th Division, they held a line west and north of the Ancre river and the area between the Ancre and Somme. The German 2nd Army concentrated its assault between Albert and Dernancourt, attacking off the line of march after a short artillery preparation. The dawn attack was under the cover of fog, but other than one small penetration in the early morning that was quickly repelled, the Germans failed to break through the Allied defences. An Australian sergeant, Stanley McDougall (pictured), was awarded the Victoria Cross for his part in defeating the German penetration. A week later the Germans renewed their attempts to advance in the sector, culminating in the Second Battle of Dernancourt when the Germans were again defeated. (Full article...) Recently featured: Introduction to viruses Ubinas Megarachne Archive By email More featured articles Did you know ... Drawing from Brush's aircraft patent application ... that Mary Taylor Brush filed a 1917 patent (drawing shown) for a design to make aircraft "practically invisible when in the air"? ... that the Aberbargoed Grasslands in Wales were designated a Special Area of Conservation primarily due to their population of marsh fritillary butterflies, which had been threatened by an arson attack? ... that sculptor Dan Lam was born in a refugee camp in Morong, Philippines? ... that a deep-sea fish known as a black ruff was caught in a salmon net in the Firth of Forth and donated to the Edinburgh Museum of Science and Art in 1901? ... that the offices of the Chanin Organization in New York City's Chanin Building contained "America's finest bathroom" and a set of ornate bronze gates? ... that Japanese voice actor Shugo Nakamura, who has voiced characters in The Idolmaster SideM and other anime series, was recognized as one of the Best New Actors at the 2019 Seiyu Awards? ... that musician Finneas made a cameo appearance as an Uber driver in the music video for Tove Lo's song "Bikini Porn"? ... that at the age of 10, Sky Brown became the youngest professional skateboarder in the world? Archive Start a new article Nominate an article In the news Coronavirus pandemic Disease Virus Timeline (March) By location Impact Portal Flag of North Macedonia North Macedonia (flag pictured) becomes a NATO member state. Igor Matovi? becomes Prime Minister of Slovakia following elections in February. Edwin Catmull and Pat Hanrahan receive the Turing Award for their work on computer-generated imagery. Recent deaths: Bob Andy John O'Leary Curly Neal Jennifer Bate Mike Stratton Albert Uderzo Other recent events Nominate an article On this day March 28: Serfs Emancipation Day in Tibet (1959) Fabre Hydravion 1802 – German astronomer Heinrich Wilhelm Matthias Olbers discovered Pallas, the second asteroid ever identified, but then considered to be a planet. 1862 – American Civil War: An invasion of the New Mexico Territory by the Confederate States Army was halted by Union forces at the Battle of Glorieta Pass. 1910 – French aviator Henri Fabre's floatplane, the Fabre Hydravion (pictured), became the first aircraft to take off from water under its own power at the Étang de Berre near Martigues in southern France. 1930 – The name of Turkey's largest city was changed from Constantinople to Istanbul, with the government requesting other countries to use Turkish names for its cities. 2015 – A siege of a hotel in Mogadishu by Al-Shabaab militants, which began the previous day and killed at least 20 people, ended with the Somali Armed Forces recapturing the premises. Stephen Harding (d. 1134) · Gussie Busch (b. 1899) · Eileen Crofton (b. 1919) More anniversaries: March 27 March 28 March 29 Archive By email List of historical anniversaries Today's featured picture Thomas Willing (1731–1821) was an American merchant, a delegate from Pennsylvania to the Continental Congress, and the first president of the First Bank of the United States. After studying abroad in England, he returned to Philadelphia in 1749, where he engaged in mercantile pursuits, in partnership with Robert Morris. They established the firm Willing, Morris and Company in 1757. This exported flour, lumber and tobacco to Europe while importing sugar, rum, molasses, and slaves from the West Indies and Africa; their partnership continued until 1793. Despite voting against the Declaration of Independence as a member of the Continental Congress in 1775 and 1776, he later contributed £5,000 to the revolutionary cause. This picture is a 1782 oil-on-canvas portrait of Willing by American artist Charles Willson Peale. He is depicted here in front of shipping on the Atlantic Ocean, the source of his wealth and status. He holds in his hand a snuff box, an emblem of his business interests and patriotism; it bears a profile of his close friend George Washington and contains powdered tobacco, one of his most profitable exports. The painting is now in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. Painting credit: Charles Willson Peale Recently featured: The Voyage of Life: Manhood Zaire ebolavirus View from Stalheim Archive More featured pictures Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas. Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia. Local embassy – For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English. Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects. Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation. Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning materials and activities Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001 (2001), it currently contains 6,043,788 articles. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. More than 1,000,000 articles: ??????? Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands ??? Polski Português ??????? Svenska ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? More than 250,000 articles: Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu ????????? Català ?eština Dansk Esperanto Euskara ?????? ????? ??? Magyar Norsk Bokmål Român? Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe More than 50,000 articles: Bosanski Eesti ???????? English (Simple English) Galego Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvi? ?????? Norsk nynorsk Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ??? Complete list of Wikipedias Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=939357440" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Main Page Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikimania Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? ????????? Bosanski Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français Galego ??? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? ??????? Latviešu Lietuvi? Magyar Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Român? ??????? Simple English Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska ??? Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? This page was last edited on 5 February 2020, at 23:40 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Leon@Harold.info
