The New York Times International Edition - Wikipedia The New York Times International Edition From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from International Herald Tribune) Jump to navigation Jump to search English-language international newspaper Not to be confused with The New York Times. The New York Times International Edition The New York Times International Edition (8 August 2017) Type Daily newspaper Format Broadsheet Owner(s) The New York Times Company Publisher A. G. Sulzberger Founded 1887 Political alignment None Headquarters La Défense, France Several international offices Circulation 242,073 ISSN 0294-8052 OCLC number 185273721 Website www.nytimes.com The front page of the page announcing death of Martin Luther King Jr. The front page of an issue of the International Herald Tribune before it was renamed the International New York Times Front page of the International New York Times of October 15, 2013, the first to be issued under this name before being integrated into The New York Times International Edition in October 2016 The New York Times International Edition is an English-language newspaper printed at 38 sites throughout the world and sold in more than 160 countries and territories. Founded under the title Paris Herald in 1887 in Paris as the European edition of the New York Herald, it changed owners and was renamed several times: it became the Paris Herald Tribune, the European edition[1] of the New York Herald Tribune in 1924, and then the International Herald Tribune in 1967, with the Washington Post and the New York Times as joint parent newspapers. In 2002, the New York Times Company took control of the International Herald Tribune, which was then subtitled the Global Edition of the New York Times for a number of years. On October 15, 2013, the paper was renamed The International New York Times,[2][3] and in October 2016, it was fully integrated with its parent and renamed The New York Times International Edition.[4] Autumn of that year also saw the closing of editing and preproduction operations in the Paris newsroom,[5] where the paper, under its various names, had been headquartered since 1887.[6] Contents 1 History 1.1 Acquisition by The New York Times Company 2 The New York Times International Weekly 2.1 Affiliations 3 References 4 External links History[edit] The Paris Herald was founded on 4 October 1887 as the European edition of the New York Herald by the parent paper’s owner, James Gordon Bennett, Jr.[7][8] The company was based in Neuilly-sur-Seine, a suburb of Paris, France. After the death of Bennett in 1918, Frank Andrew Munsey bought the New York Herald and the Paris Herald. Munsey sold the Herald newspapers in 1924 to Ogden Mills Reid of the New York Tribune, and the Paris Herald became the Paris Herald Tribune, while the New York paper became New York Herald Tribune. The newspaper became a mainstay of American expatriate culture in Europe. In Ernest Hemingway’s 1926 novel, The Sun Also Rises, the first thing the novel’s protagonist Jake Barnes does on returning from Spain to France is buy the New York Herald from a kiosk in Bayonne and read it at a cafe.[9] In Jean-Luc Godard’s 1960 film Breathless, the female lead character Patricia (played by Jean Seberg) is an American student journalist who sells the New York Herald Tribune on the streets of Paris.[9] Pages from the day’s paper can be seen tacked up through the office windows, a tradition that would continue with the International Herald Tribune. In 1924, the Reid family purchased the paper from Frank Andrew Munsey. It rarely generated enough profit for growth or capital improvements; the Reids subsidized the Herald Tribune through the paper's early years. The Reids due to financial misfortune sold the paper. In 1934, the paper acquired its main competitor: the European Edition of the Chicago Tribune.[10] In 1959, John Hay Whitney, a businessman and United States Ambassador to the United Kingdom, bought the New York Herald Tribune and its European edition. In 1966, the New York Herald Tribune was merged into the short-lived New York World Journal Tribune and ceased publication, but the Whitney family kept the Paris paper going through partnerships. In December 1966 The Washington Post became a joint owner. The New York Times became a joint owner of the Paris Herald Tribune in May 1967, whereupon the newspaper became known as the International Herald Tribune (IHT).[7] In 1974, the IHT began transmitting facsimile pages of the paper between nations and opened a printing site near London. In 1977 the paper opened a second site in Zürich. The IHT began transmitting electronic images of newspaper pages from Paris to Hong Kong via satellite in 1980, making the paper simultaneously available on opposite sides of the planet. This was the first such intercontinental transmission of an English-language daily newspaper and followed the pioneering efforts of the Chinese-language newspaper Sing Tao Daily (????). In 1991, The Washington Post and The New York Times became sole and equal shareholders of the IHT. In February 2005 it opened its Asia newsroom in Hong Kong. In April 2001, the Japanese newspaper Asahi Shimbun (????) tied up with the IHT and published an English-language newspaper, the International Herald Tribune/Asahi Shimbun.[11] After the Washington Post sold its stake in the IHT, it continued being published under the name International Herald Tribune/Asahi Shimbun, but it was discontinued in February 2011.[11] Acquisition by The New York Times Company[edit] On 30 December 2002 The New York Times Company took control of the paper by buying the 50% stake owned by The Washington Post Company. The takeover ended a 35-year partnership between the two US domestic competitors. The Post was forced to sell when the Times threatened to pull out and start a competing paper.[citation needed] As a result, the Post entered into an agreement to publish selected Post articles in The Wall Street Journal’s European edition. After the takeover the IHT was subtitled The Global Edition of the New York Times instead of Published by The New York Times and The Washington Post. In 2008, the NYT Company announced the merger of the New York Times and IHT websites. In March 2009 the IHT website became the global version of NYTimes.com. In 2013, the New York Times Company announced that the newspaper itself would be renamed The International New York Times to reflect the company’s focus on its core New York Times newspaper and to build its international presence.[2] On October 14, 2013, the International Herald Tribune appeared on newsstands for the last time. It came with a supplemental section, titled Turning the Page, a retrospective on the Herald Tribune’s past articles, photographs, and place in newspaper history. On October 15, 2013, the International New York Times debuted with a ‘Premier Edition’ flash above the masthead. It came with a supplement titled Turning the Page II, which discussed and predicted likely developments in many global areas including energy, finance, technology and media. In October 2016, the newspaper was fully integrated with its parent and renamed The New York Times International Edition. While the International Edition shares many columnists with The New York Times, it has its own voice, particularly in the field of culture. Well-known commentators include Alice Rawsthorn on design and Souren Melikian on art. The New York Times International Weekly[edit] Besides the daily edition, a weekly 16-page edition is published as The New York Times International Weekly featuring the best of New York Times articles for a week. Designed to complement and extend local reporting, it offers readers globally resonant coverage of ideas and trends, business and politics, science and lifestyles and more. Host papers can monetize the IW through built-in advertising space, sponsorship and other opportunities to generate revenue.[12] Affiliations[edit] Typically, the affiliation consists of an English-language edition of the local newspaper circulated together with the New York Times International Weekly. Affiliations with international newspapers include: Asahi Shimbun (Japan) Le Figaro (France) The Japan Times (Japan) JoongAng Daily (South Korea) Haaretz (Israel) Kathimerini (Greece) The Express Tribune (Pakistan) The Malaysian Reserve (Malaysia) República (Nepal) The Jakarta Post (Indonesia) Ara (Spain) References[edit] ^ "Log In to Continue". login.ezproxy.bpl.org. Retrieved 2020-02-05. ^ a b Herald Tribune to Be Renamed The International New York Times Archived July 9, 2013, at the Wayback Machine ^ The New York Times Company Announces Plan to Rebrand the International Herald Tribune as the International New York Times February 25, 2013 Archived July 9, 2013, at the Wayback Machine ^ Greenslade, Roy (11 October 2016). "The New York Times introduces its new 'International Edition'". the Guardian. Retrieved 25 March 2018. ^ "International New York Times closes in Paris". rfi.fr. 29 September 2016. Retrieved 25 March 2018. ^ "The International Herald Tribune". Ihtinfo.com. Archived from the original on April 11, 2012. ^ a b "History". International Herald Tribune. Archived from the original on March 3, 2010. Retrieved 2010-07-04. Entrepreneur James Gordon Bennett Jr. founded the New York Herald’s European edition in 1887. Cosmopolitan and innovative, Bennett was the embodiment of an international spirit that thrived through changes of ownership and name until the newspaper became the International Herald Tribune in 1967. ^ James L. Crouthamel (1989). Bennett's New York Herald and the Rise of the Popular Press. Syracuse University Press. ^ a b "End of an era as venerable 'Herald Tribune' to be reborn as 'International New York Times'". Irish Times. 12 October 2013. ^ Weber, Ronald, 1934- (2006). News of Paris : American journalists in the city of light between the wars. Chicago: Ivan R. Dee. ISBN 1-56663-676-0. OCLC 61262361.CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) ^ a b The Diplomat TOKYO NOTES (December 7, 2010). Asahi to Drop English Daily. Retrieved June 1, 2015. ^ NYT Licensing: The New York Times International Weekly External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to International Herald Tribune. Official website Mobile apps of the New York Times v t e The New York Times Company People Arthur Ochs Sulzberger Jr. (Chairman) Mark Thompson (President and CEO) Dean Baquet James Bennet Meredith Kopit Levien Arthur Gregg Sulzberger Joseph Kahn Newspapers The New York Times The New York Times International Edition The New York Times International Weekly Magazines The New York Times Magazine The New York Times Book Review T: The New York Times Style Magazine Other assets The Daily Donohue Malbaie Inc. The New York Times Syndicate & News Service The Takeaway Times Books The Wirecutter Full list Publishers Adolph Ochs Arthur Hays Sulzberger Orvil Dryfoos Arthur Ochs Sulzberger Arthur Ochs Sulzberger Jr. Headquarters New York Times Building (41 Park Row) (1889–1903) One Times Square (1903–1913) The Times Square Building (1913–2007) The New York Times Building (2007–present) Related articles U.S. presidential endorsements Pulitzer Prizes awarded to The New York Times staff The New York Times Best Seller list List of employees Controversies Carlos Slim (largest shareholder) Authority control GND: 4476359-1 ISNI: 0000 0001 0666 9133 LCCN: n81111676 VIAF: 176606469 WorldCat Identities: viaf-141448602 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_New_York_Times_International_Edition&oldid=943765844" Categories: English-language newspapers International newspapers Publications established in 1887 The New York Times Newspapers published in France 1887 establishments in France Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list Articles with short description Pages using infobox newspaper with unknown parameters All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from October 2013 Commons category link is on Wikidata Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ????????? Català ?eština Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Español ????? Français ??? ?????? Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? Kurdî Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål Polski Português Român? ??????? Suomi Svenska Türkçe ?????????? ?? ?? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 3 March 2020, at 20:24 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Frank@Thomas.ca
