Intellectual property - Wikipedia Intellectual property From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article is about the legal concept. For the 2006 film, see Intellectual Property (film). Notion of ownership of ideas and processes Intellectual property Authors' rights Copyright Database right Geographical indication Indigenous intellectual property Industrial design right Integrated circuit layout design protection Intellectual rights Moral rights Patent Plant breeders' rights Related rights Supplementary protection certificate Trade dress Trade secret Trademark Utility model Related topics Abandonware Copyright troll Criticism of copyright Bioprospecting Cultural appropriation Idea–expression distinction Limitations and exceptions to copyright Fair dealing Fair use Paraphrasing Right to quote Orphan work Patent troll Public domain Outline of intellectual property Outline of patents Higher category: Property and Property law v t e Part of a series on Intellectualism General terms Intellect Intelligence Intellectual Intellectual giftedness Intellectual history Intellectual honesty Intellectual humility Intellectual inbreeding Intellectual functioning Intellectual property Intellectual rigor Intellectual virtue Intellectualisation Intelligentsia Rationalism Social/Technical Academia Education Public intellectual Female public intellectuals Philosophy Scholar Schools of thought Scientific method Thought Legal Intellectual property Organization infringement Outline Manufacturing Consent Ethnic/National Chinese intellectualism Chungin Intellectual movements in Iran Man of letters Literati belletrist Tui Countermeasures Anti-intellectualism Atel Boffin Egghead Geek Intellectual cover Intellectual dishonesty Nerd March of Intellect Pseudointellectual Self-deception Related topics Age of Enlightenment Intellectual capital Intellectual dark web Intellectual disability FP Top 100 Global Thinkers Martyred Intellectuals Day The thinker v t e Intellectual property laws such as copyright forbid the sale of copyright infringing goods like these "Nkie" sandals. Intellectual property (IP) is a category of property that includes intangible creations of the human intellect.[1][2] There are many types of intellectual property, and some countries recognize more than others.[3][4][5][6][7] The most well-known types are copyrights, patents, trademarks, and trade secrets. Early precursors to some types of intellectual property existed in societies such as Ancient Rome, but the modern concept of intellectual property developed in England in the 17th and 18th centuries. The term "intellectual property" began to be used in the 19th century, though it was not until the late 20th century that intellectual property became commonplace in the majority of the world's legal systems.[8] The main purpose of intellectual property law is to encourage the creation of a wide variety of intellectual goods.[9] To achieve this, the law gives people and businesses property rights to the information and intellectual goods they create, usually for a limited period of time. This gives economic incentive for their creation, because it allows people to profit from the information and intellectual goods they create.[9] These economic incentives are expected to stimulate innovation and contribute to the technological progress of countries, which depends on the extent of protection granted to innovators.[10] The intangible nature of intellectual property presents difficulties when compared with traditional property like land or goods. Unlike traditional property, intellectual property is "indivisible", since an unlimited number of people can "consume" an intellectual good without it being depleted. Additionally, investments in intellectual goods suffer from problems of appropriation: a landowner can surround their land with a robust fence and hire armed guards to protect it, but a producer of information or literature can usually do very little to stop their first buyer from replicating it and selling it at a lower price. Balancing rights so that they are strong enough to encourage the creation of intellectual goods but not so strong that they prevent the goods' wide use is the primary focus of modern intellectual property law.[11] Contents 1 History 2 Intellectual property rights 2.1 Patents 2.2 Copyright 2.3 Industrial design rights 2.4 Plant varieties 2.5 Trademarks 2.6 Trade dress 2.7 Trade secrets 3 Object of intellectual property law 3.1 Financial incentive 3.2 Economic growth 3.3 Morality 4 Infringement, misappropriation, and enforcement 4.1 Patent infringement 4.2 Copyright infringement 4.3 Trademark infringement 4.4 Trade secret misappropriation 5 Criticisms 5.1 The term "intellectual property" 5.1.1 Alternative terms 5.2 Objections to overbroad intellectual property laws 5.3 Expansion in nature and scope of intellectual property laws 5.4 Use in corporate tax avoidance 6 See also 7 References 7.1 Citations 7.2 Sources 8 External links History[edit] Main articles: History of copyright law and History of patent law The Statute of Anne came into force in 1710 The Statute of Monopolies (1624) and the British Statute of Anne (1710) are seen as the origins of patent law and copyright respectively,[12] firmly establishing the concept of intellectual property. "Literary property" was the term predominantly used in the British legal debates of the 1760s and 1770s over the extent to which authors and publishers of works also had rights deriving from the common law of property (Millar v Taylor (1769), Hinton v Donaldson (1773), Donaldson v Becket (1774)). The first known use of the term intellectual property dates to this time, when a piece published in the Monthly Review in 1769 used the phrase.[13] The first clear example of modern usage goes back as early as 1808, when it was used as a heading title in a collection of essays.[14] The German equivalent was used with the founding of the North German Confederation whose constitution granted legislative power over the protection of intellectual property (Schutz des geistigen Eigentums) to the confederation.[15] When the administrative secretariats established by the Paris Convention (1883) and the Berne Convention (1886) merged in 1893, they located in Berne, and also adopted the term intellectual property in their new combined title, the United International Bureaux for the Protection of Intellectual Property. The organization subsequently relocated to Geneva in 1960 and was succeeded in 1967 with the establishment of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) by treaty as an agency of the United Nations. According to legal scholar Mark Lemley, it was only at this point that the term really began to be used in the United States (which had not been a party to the Berne Convention),[8] and it did not enter popular usage there until passage of the Bayh-Dole Act in 1980.[16] "The history of patents does not begin with inventions, but rather with royal grants by Queen Elizabeth I (1558–1603) for monopoly privileges... Approximately 200 years after the end of Elizabeth's reign, however, a patent represents a legal right obtained by an inventor providing for exclusive control over the production and sale of his mechanical or scientific invention... [demonstrating] the evolution of patents from royal prerogative to common-law doctrine."[17] The term can be found used in an October 1845 Massachusetts Circuit Court ruling in the patent case Davoll et al. v. Brown., in which Justice Charles L. Woodbury wrote that "only in this way can we protect intellectual property, the labors of the mind, productions and interests are as much a man's own...as the wheat he cultivates, or the flocks he rears."[18] The statement that "discoveries are..property" goes back earlier. Section 1 of the French law of 1791 stated, "All new discoveries are the property of the author; to assure the inventor the property and temporary enjoyment of his discovery, there shall be delivered to him a patent for five, ten or fifteen years."[19] In Europe, French author A. Nion mentioned propriété intellectuelle in his Droits civils des auteurs, artistes et inventeurs, published in 1846. Until recently, the purpose of intellectual property law was to give as little protection as possible in order to encourage innovation. Historically, therefore, they were granted only when they were necessary to encourage invention, limited in time and scope.[20] This is mainly as a result of knowledge being traditionally viewed as a public good, in order to allow its extensive dissemination and improvement thereof.[21] The concept's origins can potentially be traced back further. Jewish law includes several considerations whose effects are similar to those of modern intellectual property laws, though the notion of intellectual creations as property does not seem to exist – notably the principle of Hasagat Ge'vul (unfair encroachment) was used to justify limited-term publisher (but not author) copyright in the 16th century.[22] In 500 BCE, the government of the Greek state of Sybaris offered one year's patent "to all who should discover any new refinement in luxury".[23] According to Jean-Frédéric Morin, "the global intellectual property regime is currently in the midst of a paradigm shift".[24] Indeed, up until the early 2000s the global IP regime used to be dominated by high standards of protection characteristic of IP laws from Europe or the United States, with a vision that uniform application of these standards over every country and to several fields with little consideration over social, cultural or environmental values or of the national level of economic development. Morin argues that "the emerging discourse of the global IP regime advocates for greater policy flexibility and greater access to knowledge, especially for developing countries." Indeed, with the Development Agenda adopted by WIPO in 2007, a set of 45 recommendations to adjust WIPO's activities to the specific needs of developing countries and aim to reduce distortions especially on issues such as patients’ access to medicines, Internet users’ access to information, farmers’ access to seeds, programmers’ access to source codes or students’ access to scientific articles.[25] However, this paradigm shift has not yet manifested itself in concrete legal reforms at the international level.[26] Similarly, it is based on these background that the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) agreement requires members of the WTO to set minimum standards of legal protection, but its objective to have a “one-fits-all” protection law on Intellectual Property has been viewed with controversies regarding differences in the development level of countries.[27] Despite the controversy, the agreement has extensively incorporated intellectual property rights into the global trading system for the first time in 1995, and has prevailed as the most comprehensive agreement reached by the world.[28] Intellectual property rights[edit] Intellectual property rights include patents, copyright, industrial design rights, trademarks, plant variety rights, trade dress, geographical indications,[29] and in some jurisdictions trade secrets. There are also more specialized or derived varieties of sui generis exclusive rights, such as circuit design rights (called mask work rights in the US), supplementary protection certificates for pharmaceutical products (after expiry of a patent protecting them), and database rights (in European law). The term "industrial property" is sometimes used to refer to a large subset of intellectual property rights including patents, trademarks, industrial designs, utility models, service marks, trade names, and geographical indications.[30] Patents[edit] Main article: Patent A patent is a form of right granted by the government to an inventor or their successor-in-title, giving the owner the right to exclude others from making, using, selling, offering to sell, and importing an invention for a limited period of time, in exchange for the public disclosure of the invention. An invention is a solution to a specific technological problem, which may be a product or a process and generally has to fulfill three main requirements: it has to be new, not obvious and there needs to be an industrial applicability.[31]:17 To enrich the body of knowledge and stimulate innovation, it is an obligation for patent owners to disclose valuable information about their inventions to the public.[32] Copyright[edit] Main article: Copyright A copyright gives the creator of an original work exclusive rights to it, usually for a limited time. Copyright may apply to a wide range of creative, intellectual, or artistic forms, or "works".[33][34] Copyright does not cover ideas and information themselves, only the form or manner in which they are expressed.[35] Industrial design rights[edit] Main article: Industrial design right An industrial design right (sometimes called "design right" or design patent) protects the visual design of objects that are not purely utilitarian. An industrial design consists of the creation of a shape, configuration or composition of pattern or color, or combination of pattern and color in three-dimensional form containing aesthetic value. An industrial design can be a two- or three-dimensional pattern used to produce a product, industrial commodity or handicraft. Generally speaking, it is what makes a product look appealing, and as such, it increases the commercial value of goods.[32] Plant varieties[edit] Main article: Plant breeders' rights Plant breeders' rights or plant variety rights are the rights to commercially use a new variety of a plant. The variety must amongst others be novel and distinct and for registration the evaluation of propagating material of the variety is considered. Trademarks[edit] Main article: Trademark A trademark is a recognizable sign, design or expression which distinguishes products or services of a particular trader from similar products or services of other traders.[36][37][38] Trade dress[edit] Main article: Trade dress Trade dress is a legal term of art that generally refers to characteristics of the visual and aesthetic appearance of a product or its packaging (or even the design of a building) that signify the source of the product to consumers.[39] Trade secrets[edit] Main article: Trade secret A trade secret is a formula, practice, process, design, instrument, pattern, or compilation of information which is not generally known or reasonably ascertainable, by which a business can obtain an economic advantage over competitors and customers. There is no formal government protection granted; each business must take measures to guard its own trade secrets (e.g., Formula of its soft drinks is a trade secret for Coca-Cola.) Object of intellectual property law[edit] The main purpose of intellectual property law is to encourage the creation of a wide variety of intellectual goods for consumers.[9] To achieve this, the law gives people and businesses property rights to the information and intellectual goods they create, usually for a limited period of time. Because they can then profit from them, this gives economic incentive for their creation.[9] The intangible nature of intellectual property presents difficulties when compared with traditional property like land or goods. Unlike traditional property, intellectual property is indivisible – an unlimited number of people can "consume" an intellectual good without it being depleted. Additionally, investments in intellectual goods suffer from problems of appropriation – while a landowner can surround their land with a robust fence and hire armed guards to protect it, a producer of information or an intellectual good can usually do very little to stop their first buyer from replicating it and selling it at a lower price. Balancing rights so that they are strong enough to encourage the creation of information and intellectual goods but not so strong that they prevent their wide use is the primary focus of modern intellectual property law.[11] By exchanging limited exclusive rights for disclosure of inventions and creative works, society and the patentee/copyright owner mutually benefit, and an incentive is created for inventors and authors to create and disclose their work. Some commentators have noted that the objective of intellectual property legislators and those who support its implementation appears to be "absolute protection". "If some intellectual property is desirable because it encourages innovation, they reason, more is better. The thinking is that creators will not have sufficient incentive to invent unless they are legally entitled to capture the full social value of their inventions".[20] This absolute protection or full value view treats intellectual property as another type of "real" property, typically adopting its law and rhetoric. Other recent developments in intellectual property law, such as the America Invents Act, stress international harmonization. Recently there has also been much debate over the desirability of using intellectual property rights to protect cultural heritage, including intangible ones, as well as over risks of commodification derived from this possibility.[40] The issue still remains open in legal scholarship. Financial incentive[edit] These exclusive rights allow owners of intellectual property to benefit from the property they have created, providing a financial incentive for the creation of an investment in intellectual property, and, in case of patents, pay associated research and development costs.[41] In the United States Article I Section 8 Clause 8 of the Constitution, commonly called the Patent and Copyright Clause, reads; "[The Congress shall have power] 'To promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries.'"[42] ”Some commentators, such as David Levine and Michele Boldrin, dispute this justification.[43] In 2013 the United States Patent & Trademark Office approximated that the worth of intellectual property to the U.S. economy is more than US $5 trillion and creates employment for an estimated 18 million American people. The value of intellectual property is considered similarly high in other developed nations, such as those in the European Union.[44] In the UK, IP has become a recognised asset class for use in pension-led funding and other types of business finance. However, in 2013, the UK Intellectual Property Office stated: "There are millions of intangible business assets whose value is either not being leveraged at all, or only being leveraged inadvertently".[45] Economic growth[edit] The WIPO treaty and several related international agreements underline that the protection of intellectual property rights is essential to maintaining economic growth. The WIPO Intellectual Property Handbook gives two reasons for intellectual property laws: One is to give statutory expression to the moral and economic rights of creators in their creations and the rights of the public in access to those creations. The second is to promote, as a deliberate act of Government policy, creativity and the dissemination and application of its results and to encourage fair trading which would contribute to economic and social development.[46] The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) states that "effective enforcement of intellectual property rights is critical to sustaining economic growth across all industries and globally".[47] Economists estimate that two-thirds of the value of large businesses in the United States can be traced to intangible assets.[48] "IP-intensive industries" are estimated to generate 72 percent more value added (price minus material cost) per employee than "non-IP-intensive industries".[49][dubious – discuss] A joint research project of the WIPO and the United Nations University measuring the impact of IP systems on six Asian countries found "a positive correlation between the strengthening of the IP system and subsequent economic growth."[50] Morality[edit] According to Article 27 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, "everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic production of which he is the author".[51] Although the relationship between intellectual property and human rights is a complex one,[52] there are moral arguments for intellectual property. The arguments that justify intellectual property fall into three major categories. Personality theorists believe intellectual property is an extension of an individual. Utilitarians believe that intellectual property stimulates social progress and pushes people to further innovation. Lockeans argue that intellectual property is justified based on deservedness and hard work.[53] Various moral justifications for private property can be used to argue in favor of the morality of intellectual property, such as: Natural Rights/Justice Argument: this argument is based on Locke's idea that a person has a natural right over the labour and products which are produced by their body. Appropriating these products is viewed as unjust. Although Locke had never explicitly stated that natural right applied to products of the mind,[54] it is possible to apply his argument to intellectual property rights, in which it would be unjust for people to misuse another's ideas.[55] Locke's argument for intellectual property is based upon the idea that laborers have the right to control that which they create. They argue that we own our bodies which are the laborers, this right of ownership extends to what we create. Thus, intellectual property ensures this right when it comes to production. Utilitarian-Pragmatic Argument: according to this rationale, a society that protects private property is more effective and prosperous than societies that do not. Innovation and invention in 19th century America has been attributed to the development of the patent system.[56] By providing innovators with "durable and tangible return on their investment of time, labor, and other resources", intellectual property rights seek to maximize social utility.[57] The presumption is that they promote public welfare by encouraging the "creation, production, and distribution of intellectual works".[57] Utilitarians argue that without intellectual property there would be a lack of incentive to produce new ideas. Systems of protection such as Intellectual property optimize social utility. "Personality" Argument: this argument is based on a quote from Hegel: "Every man has the right to turn his will upon a thing or make the thing an object of his will, that is to say, to set aside the mere thing and recreate it as his own".[58] European intellectual property law is shaped by this notion that ideas are an "extension of oneself and of one's personality".[59] Personality theorists argue that by being a creator of something one is inherently at risk and vulnerable for having their ideas and designs stolen and/or altered. Intellectual property protects these moral claims that have to do with personality. Lysander Spooner (1855) argues "that a man has a natural and absolute right—and if a natural and absolute, then necessarily a perpetual, right—of property, in the ideas, of which he is the discoverer or creator; that his right of property, in ideas, is intrinsically the same as, and stands on identically the same grounds with, his right of property in material things; that no distinction, of principle, exists between the two cases".[60] Writer Ayn Rand argued in her book Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal that the protection of intellectual property is essentially a moral issue. The belief is that the human mind itself is the source of wealth and survival and that all property at its base is intellectual property. To violate intellectual property is therefore no different morally than violating other property rights which compromises the very processes of survival and therefore constitutes an immoral act.[61] Infringement, misappropriation, and enforcement[edit] Main article: Intellectual property infringement Violation of intellectual property rights, called "infringement" with respect to patents, copyright, and trademarks, and "misappropriation" with respect to trade secrets, may be a breach of civil law or criminal law, depending on the type of intellectual property involved, jurisdiction, and the nature of the action. As of 2011 trade in counterfeit copyrighted and trademarked works was a $600 billion industry worldwide and accounted for 5–7% of global trade.[62] Patent infringement[edit] Main article: Patent infringement Patent infringement typically is caused by using or selling a patented invention without permission from the patent holder. The scope of the patented invention or the extent of protection[63] is defined in the claims of the granted patent. There is safe harbor in many jurisdictions to use a patented invention for research. This safe harbor does not exist in the US unless the research is done for purely philosophical purposes, or in order to gather data in order to prepare an application for regulatory approval of a drug.[64] In general, patent infringement cases are handled under civil law (e.g., in the United States) but several jurisdictions incorporate infringement in criminal law also (for example, Argentina, China, France, Japan, Russia, South Korea).[65] Copyright infringement[edit] Main article: Copyright infringement Copyright infringement is reproducing, distributing, displaying or performing a work, or to make derivative works, without permission from the copyright holder, which is typically a publisher or other business representing or assigned by the work's creator. It is often called "piracy".[66] While copyright is created the instant a work is fixed, generally the copyright holder can only get money damages if the owner registers the copyright.[citation needed] Enforcement of copyright is generally the responsibility of the copyright holder.[67] The ACTA trade agreement, signed in May 2011 by the United States, Japan, Switzerland, and the EU, and which has not entered into force, requires that its parties add criminal penalties, including incarceration and fines, for copyright and trademark infringement, and obligated the parties to actively police for infringement.[62][68] There are limitations and exceptions to copyright, allowing limited use of copyrighted works, which does not constitute infringement. Examples of such doctrines are the fair use and fair dealing doctrine. Trademark infringement[edit] Main article: Trademark infringement Trademark infringement occurs when one party uses a trademark that is identical or confusingly similar to a trademark owned by another party, in relation to products or services which are identical or similar to the products or services of the other party. In many countries, a trademark receives protection without registration, but registering a trademark provides legal advantages for enforcement. Infringement can be addressed by civil litigation and, in several jurisdictions, under criminal law.[62][68] Trade secret misappropriation[edit] Main article: Trade secret § Misappropriation Trade secret misappropriation is different from violations of other intellectual property laws, since by definition trade secrets are secret, while patents and registered copyrights and trademarks are publicly available. In the United States, trade secrets are protected under state law, and states have nearly universally adopted the Uniform Trade Secrets Act. The United States also has federal law in the form of the Economic Espionage Act of 1996 (18 U.S.C. §§ 1831–1839), which makes the theft or misappropriation of a trade secret a federal crime. This law contains two provisions criminalizing two sorts of activity. The first, 18 U.S.C. § 1831(a), criminalizes the theft of trade secrets to benefit foreign powers. The second, 18 U.S.C. § 1832, criminalizes their theft for commercial or economic purposes. (The statutory penalties are different for the two offenses.) In Commonwealth common law jurisdictions, confidentiality and trade secrets are regarded as an equitable right rather than a property right but penalties for theft are roughly the same as in the United States.[citation needed] Criticisms[edit] Further information: Criticism of patents and Opposition to copyright Demonstration in Sweden in support of file sharing, 2006. "Copying is not theft!" badge with a character resembling Mickey Mouse in reference to the in popular culture rationale behind the Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act of 1998 The term "intellectual property"[edit] Criticism of the term intellectual property ranges from discussing its vagueness and abstract overreach to direct contention to the semantic validity of using words like property and rights in fashions that contradict practice and law. Many detractors think this term specially serves the doctrinal agenda of parties opposing reform in the public interest or otherwise abusing related legislations; and that it disallows intelligent discussion about specific and often unrelated aspects of copyright, patents, trademarks, etc.[69] Free Software Foundation founder Richard Stallman argues that, although the term intellectual property is in wide use, it should be rejected altogether, because it "systematically distorts and confuses these issues, and its use was and is promoted by those who gain from this confusion". He claims that the term "operates as a catch-all to lump together disparate laws [which] originated separately, evolved differently, cover different activities, have different rules, and raise different public policy issues" and that it creates a "bias" by confusing these monopolies with ownership of limited physical things, likening them to "property rights".[70] Stallman advocates referring to copyrights, patents and trademarks in the singular and warns against abstracting disparate laws into a collective term. He argues that "to avoid spreading unnecessary bias and confusion, it is best to adopt a firm policy not to speak or even think in terms of 'intellectual property'."[71] Similarly, economists Boldrin and Levine prefer to use the term "intellectual monopoly" as a more appropriate and clear definition of the concept, which they argue, is very dissimilar from property rights.[72] They further argued that “stronger patents do little or nothing to encourage innovation”, mainly explained by its tendency to create market monopolies, thereby restricting further innovations and technology transfer.[73] On the assumption that intellectual property rights are actual rights, Stallman says that this claim does not live to the historical intentions behind these laws, which in the case of copyright served as a censorship system, and later on, a regulatory model for the printing press that may have benefited authors incidentally, but never interfered with the freedom of average readers.[74] Still referring to copyright, he cites legal literature such as the United States Constitution and case law to demonstrate that the law is meant to be an optional and experimental bargain to temporarily trade property rights and free speech for public, not private, benefits in the form of increased artistic production and knowledge. He mentions that "if copyright were a natural right nothing could justify terminating this right after a certain period of time".[75] Law professor, writer and political activist Lawrence Lessig, along with many other copyleft and free software activists, has criticized the implied analogy with physical property (like land or an automobile). They argue such an analogy fails because physical property is generally rivalrous while intellectual works are non-rivalrous (that is, if one makes a copy of a work, the enjoyment of the copy does not prevent enjoyment of the original).[76][77] Other arguments along these lines claim that unlike the situation with tangible property, there is no natural scarcity of a particular idea or information: once it exists at all, it can be re-used and duplicated indefinitely without such re-use diminishing the original. Stephan Kinsella has objected to intellectual property on the grounds that the word "property" implies scarcity, which may not be applicable to ideas.[78] Entrepreneur and politician Rickard Falkvinge and hacker Alexandre Oliva have independently compared George Orwell's fictional dialect Newspeak to the terminology used by intellectual property supporters as a linguistic weapon to shape public opinion regarding copyright debate and DRM.[79][80] Alternative terms[edit] In civil law jurisdictions, intellectual property has often been referred to as intellectual rights, traditionally a somewhat broader concept that has included moral rights and other personal protections that cannot be bought or sold. Use of the term intellectual rights has declined since the early 1980s, as use of the term intellectual property has increased. Alternative terms monopolies on information and intellectual monopoly have emerged among those who argue against the "property" or "intellect" or "rights" assumptions, notably Richard Stallman. The backronyms intellectual protectionism and intellectual poverty,[81] whose initials are also IP, have found supporters as well, especially among those who have used the backronym digital restrictions management.[82][83] The argument that an intellectual property right should (in the interests of better balancing of relevant private and public interests) be termed an intellectual monopoly privilege (IMP) has been advanced by several academics including Birgitte Andersen[84] and Thomas Alured Faunce.[85] Objections to overbroad intellectual property laws[edit] The free culture movement champions the production of content that bears little or no restrictions. Some critics of intellectual property, such as those in the free culture movement, point at intellectual monopolies as harming health (in the case of pharmaceutical patents), preventing progress, and benefiting concentrated interests to the detriment of the masses,[86][87][88][89] and argue that the public interest is harmed by ever-expansive monopolies in the form of copyright extensions, software patents, and business method patents. More recently scientists and engineers are expressing concern that patent thickets are undermining technological development even in high-tech fields like nanotechnology.[90][91] Petra Moser has asserted that historical analysis suggests that intellectual property laws may harm innovation: Overall, the weight of the existing historical evidence suggests that patent policies, which grant strong intellectual property rights to early generations of inventors, may discourage innovation. On the contrary, policies that encourage the diffusion of ideas and modify patent laws to facilitate entry and encourage competition may be an effective mechanism to encourage innovation.[92] In support of that argument, Jörg Baten, Nicola Bianchi and Petra Moser[93] find historical evidence that especially compulsory licensing – which allows governments to license patents without the consent of patent-owners – encouraged invention in Germany in the early 20th century by increasing the threat of competition in fields with low pre-existing levels of competition. Peter Drahos notes, "Property rights confer authority over resources. When authority is granted to the few over resources on which many depend, the few gain power over the goals of the many. This has consequences for both political and economic freedoms with in a society."[94]:13 The World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) recognizes that conflicts may exist between the respect for and implementation of current intellectual property systems and other human rights.[95] In 2001 the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights issued a document called "Human rights and intellectual property" that argued that intellectual property tends to be governed by economic goals when it should be viewed primarily as a social product; in order to serve human well-being, intellectual property systems must respect and conform to human rights laws. According to the Committee, when systems fail to do so they risk infringing upon the human right to food and health, and to cultural participation and scientific benefits.[96][97] In 2004 the General Assembly of WIPO adopted The Geneva Declaration on the Future of the World Intellectual Property Organization which argues that WIPO should "focus more on the needs of developing countries, and to view IP as one of many tools for development—not as an end in itself".[98] Ethical problems are most pertinent when socially valuable goods like life-saving medicines are given IP protection. While the application of IP rights can allow companies to charge higher than the marginal cost of production in order to recoup the costs of research and development, the price may exclude from the market anyone who cannot afford the cost of the product, in this case a life-saving drug.[99] "An IPR driven regime is therefore not a regime that is conductive to the investment of R&D of products that are socially valuable to predominately poor populations".[99]:1108–9 Libertarians have differing views on intellectual property.[citation needed] Stephan Kinsella, an anarcho-capitalist on the right-wing of libertarianism,[100] argues against intellectual property because allowing property rights in ideas and information creates artificial scarcity and infringes on the right to own tangible property. Kinsella uses the following scenario to argue this point: [I]magine the time when men lived in caves. One bright guy—let's call him Galt-Magnon—decides to build a log cabin on an open field, near his crops. To be sure, this is a good idea, and others notice it. They naturally imitate Galt-Magnon, and they start building their own cabins. But the first man to invent a house, according to IP advocates, would have a right to prevent others from building houses on their own land, with their own logs, or to charge them a fee if they do build houses. It is plain that the innovator in these examples becomes a partial owner of the tangible property (e.g., land and logs) of others, due not to first occupation and use of that property (for it is already owned), but due to his coming up with an idea. Clearly, this rule flies in the face of the first-user homesteading rule, arbitrarily and groundlessly overriding the very homesteading rule that is at the foundation of all property rights.[101] Thomas Jefferson once said in a letter to Isaac McPherson on August 13, 1813: "If nature has made any one thing less susceptible than all others of exclusive property, it is the action of the thinking power called an idea, which an individual may exclusively possess as long as he keeps it to himself; but the moment it is divulged, it forces itself into the possession of every one, and the receiver cannot dispossess himself of it. Its peculiar character, too, is that no one possesses the less, because every other possesses the whole of it. He who receives an idea from me, receives instruction himself without lessening mine; as he who lights his taper at mine, receives light without darkening me."[102] In 2005 the RSA launched the Adelphi Charter, aimed at creating an international policy statement to frame how governments should make balanced intellectual property law.[103] Another aspect of current U.S. Intellectual Property legislation is its focus on individual and joint works; thus, copyright protection can only be obtained in 'original' works of authorship.[104] Expansion in nature and scope of intellectual property laws[edit] Expansion of U.S. copyright law (Assuming authors create their works by age 35 and live for seventy years) Other criticism of intellectual property law concerns the expansion of intellectual property, both in duration and in scope. In addition, as scientific knowledge has expanded and allowed new industries to arise in fields such as biotechnology and nanotechnology, originators of technology have sought IP protection for the new technologies. Patents have been granted for living organisms,[105] and in the United States, certain living organisms have been patentable for over a century.[106] The increase in terms of protection is particularly seen in relation to copyright, which has recently been the subject of serial extensions in the United States and in Europe.[76][107][108][109][110] With no need for registration or copyright notices, this is thought to have led to an increase in orphan works (copyrighted works for which the copyright owner cannot be contacted), a problem that has been noticed and addressed by governmental bodies around the world.[111] Also with respect to copyright, the American film industry helped to change the social construct of intellectual property via its trade organization, the Motion Picture Association of America. In amicus briefs in important cases, in lobbying before Congress, and in its statements to the public, the MPAA has advocated strong protection of intellectual-property rights. In framing its presentations, the association has claimed that people are entitled to the property that is produced by their labor. Additionally Congress's awareness of the position of the United States as the world's largest producer of films has made it convenient to expand the conception of intellectual property.[112] These doctrinal reforms have further strengthened the industry, lending the MPAA even more power and authority.[113] The growth of the Internet, and particularly distributed search engines like Kazaa and Gnutella, have represented a challenge for copyright policy. The Recording Industry Association of America, in particular, has been on the front lines of the fight against copyright infringement, which the industry calls "piracy". The industry has had victories against some services, including a highly publicized case against the file-sharing company Napster, and some people have been prosecuted for sharing files in violation of copyright. The electronic age has seen an increase in the attempt to use software-based digital rights management tools to restrict the copying and use of digitally based works. Laws such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act have been enacted that use criminal law to prevent any circumvention of software used to enforce digital rights management systems. Equivalent provisions, to prevent circumvention of copyright protection have existed in EU for some time, and are being expanded in, for example, Article 6 and 7 the Copyright Directive. Other examples are Article 7 of the Software Directive of 1991 (91/250/EEC), and the Conditional Access Directive of 1998 (98/84/EEC). This can hinder legal uses, affecting public domain works, limitations and exceptions to copyright, or uses allowed by the copyright holder. Some copyleft licenses, like GNU GPL 3, are designed to counter that.[114] Laws may permit circumvention under specific conditions like when it is necessary to achieve interoperability with the circumventor's program, or for accessibility reasons; however, distribution of circumvention tools or instructions may be illegal. In the context of trademarks, this expansion has been driven by international efforts to harmonise the definition of "trademark", as exemplified by the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights ratified in 1994, which formalized regulations for IP rights that had been handled by common law, or not at all, in member states. Pursuant to TRIPs, any sign which is "capable of distinguishing" the products or services of one business from the products or services of another business is capable of constituting a trademark.[115] Use in corporate tax avoidance[edit] See also: Corporate tax haven Make no mistake: the headline [tax] rate is not what triggers tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. That comes from schemes that facilitate profit shifting. Pierre Moscovici European Commissioner for Tax Financial Times, 11 March 2018[116] "It is hard to imagine any business, under the current [Irish] IP regime, which could not generate substantial intangible assets under Irish GAAP that would be eligible for relief under [the Irish] capital allowances [for intangible assets scheme]." "This puts the attractive 2.5% Irish IP-tax rate within reach of almost any global business that relocates to Ireland." KPMG, "Intellectual Property Tax", 4 December 2017[117] Intellectual property has become a core tool in corporate tax planning and tax avoidance.[118][119][120] IP is a key component of the leading multinational tax avoidance base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) tools,[121][122] which the OECD estimates costs $100–240 billion in lost annual tax revenues,[123] and includes: Using IP royalty payment schemes to profit shift income from higher-tax locations to lower-tax locations (such as the Facebook 2012 double Irish and the Microsoft 2015 single malt BEPS tax schemes);[124][125] Using IP royalty payment schemes to overcome EU withholding tax protections (such as the circa 2007 Google dutch sandwich BEPS tax scheme);[126] Using advanced IP GAAP accounting to create intangible assets which can be expensed against taxation in certain IP-beneficial regimes (such as the Apple 2015 Irish capital allowances for intangible assets BEPS tax scheme);[127][128] Using advanced IP GAAP accounting to maximize the effect of corporate relocations to low-tax regimes (used by Accenture in their 2009 U.S. corporate tax inversion to Ireland).[129] In 2017–2018, both the U.S. and the EU Commission simultaneously decided to depart from the OECD BEPS Project timetable, which was set up in 2013 to combat IP BEPS tax tools like the above,[123] and launch their own anti-IP BEPS tax regimes: U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, which has several anti-IP BEPS abuse tax regimes, including GILTI tax and the BEAT tax regimes.[130][131][132] EU Commission 2018 Digital Services Tax, which is less advanced than the U.S. TCJA, but does seek to override IP BEPS tools via a quasi-VAT.[133][134][135] The departure of the U.S. and EU Commission from the OECD BEPS Project process, is attributed to frustrations with the rise in IP as a key BEPS tax tool, creating intangible assets, which are then turned into royalty payment BEPS schemes (double Irish), and/or capital allowance BEPS schemes (capital allowances for intangibles). In contrast, the OECD has spent years developing and advocating intellectual property as a legal and a GAAP accounting concept.[136] The EU Commission's €13 billion fine of Apple's pre-2015 double Irish IP BEPS tax scheme, is the largest corporate tax fine in history.[137] See also[edit] Defensive publication Information policy Freedom of information Libertarian perspectives on intellectual property References[edit] Citations[edit] ^ "Understanding Industrial Property". World Intellectual Property Organization. Retrieved 2018-12-06. ^ "Intellectual, industrial and commercial property | Fact Sheets on the European Union". European Parliament. Retrieved 2018-12-06. ^ "What are intellectual property rights?". World Trade Organization. World Trade Organization. Retrieved 2016-05-23. ^ "Intellectual property", Black's Law Dictionary, 10th ed. (2014). ^ "Understanding Copyright and Related Rights" (PDF). World Intellectual Property Organization. p. 4. Retrieved 2018-12-06. ^ "What is Intellectual Property?" (PDF). World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). Retrieved 2018-12-07. ^ "Understanding Industrial Property" (PDF). World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). Retrieved 2018-12-07. ^ a b "property as a common descriptor of the field probably traces to the foundation of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) by the United Nations." in Mark A. Lemley, Property, Intellectual Property, and Free Riding Archived 2009-02-26 at the Wayback Machine, Texas Law Review, 2005, Vol. 83:1031, page 1033, footnote 4. ^ a b c d Goldstein & Reese (2008), p. 17. ^ Rod Falvey and Neil Foster (2006): “The Role of Intellectual Property Rights in Technology Transfer and Economic Growth”: Theory and Evidence, In cooperation with Olga Memedovic UNITED NATIONS INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION (UNIDO), available: https://www.unido.org/sites/default/files/2009-04/Role_of_intellectual_property_rights_in_technology_transfer_and_economic_growth_0.pdf ^ a b Goldstein & Reese (2008), pp. 18–19. ^ Brad, Sherman; Lionel Bently (1999). The making of modern intellectual property law: the British experience, 1760–1911. Cambridge University Press. p. 207. ISBN 978-0-521-56363-5. ^ "intellectual property". Oxford English Dictionary (3rd ed.). Oxford University Press. September 2005.  (Subscription or UK public library membership required.) (Citing Monthly Review, vol. 41. p. 290 (1769): "What a niggard this Doctor is of his own, and how profuse he is of other people's intellectual property.") ^ "intellectual property". Oxford English Dictionary (3rd ed.). Oxford University Press. September 2005.  (Subscription or UK public library membership required.) (Citing Medical Repository Of Original Essays And Intelligence, vol. 11. p. 303 (1808): "New-England Association in favour of Inventors and Discoverers, and particularly for the Protection of intellectual Property.") ^ 'Article 4 No. 6 of the Constitution of 1867 (German)' Hastings Law Journal, Vol. 52, p. 1255, 2001 ^ Mark A. Lemley, "Property, Intellectual Property, and Free Riding" (Abstract); see Table 1: 4–5. ^ Mossoff, A. 'Rethinking the Development of Patents: An Intellectual History, 1550–1800,' Hastings Law Journal, Vol. 52, p. 1255, 2001 ^ 1 Woodb. & M. 53, 3 West.L.J. 151, 7 F.Cas. 197, No. 3662, 2 Robb.Pat.Cas. 303, Merw.Pat.Inv. 414 ^ "Patent Archives – Ladas & Parry LLP". Ladas.com. Archived from the original on 2013-01-15. Retrieved 2015-08-17. ^ a b Mark A. Lemley. "Property, Intellectual Property, and Free Riding". Heinonline.org. Retrieved 2015-08-17. ^ The Economist; (October 20th 2005): “The Liquidity of Innovation”; How the new market for intellectual property is changing the technology industry, available; https://www.economist.com/node/5015365 ^ "Jewish Law – Articles ("Jewish Law and Copyright")". Jlaw.com. Retrieved 2015-08-17. ^ Charles Anthon, A Classical Dictionary: Containing an Account of the Principal Proper Names Mentioned in Ancient Authors, and Intended to Elucidate All the Important Points Connected with the Geography, History, Biography, Mythology, and Fine Arts of the Greek and Romans. Together with an Account of Coins, Weights, and Measures, with Tabular Values of the Same 1273 (Harper & Brothers 1841). See also "The first patent law was enacted in Sybaris, a city in the South of Italy, before the Roman domination; (…) The law was mentioned by Atheneus, an ancient writer..." in Takenaka, Toshiko (2013). Intellectual Property in Common Law and Civil Law. Edward Elgar Publishing. p. 419. (chapter by Mario Franzosi). ^ Morin, Jean-Frédéric. "Paradigm shift in the global IP regime: The agency of academics, Review of International Political Economy, vol 21-2, 2014, p.275" (PDF). ^ Morin, Jean-Frédéric. "Paradigm shift in the global IP regime: The agency of academics, Review of International Political Economy, vol 21-2, 2014, p.275" (PDF). ^ Morin, Jean-Frédéric. "Paradigm shift in the global IP regime: The agency of academics, Review of International Political Economy, vol 21-2, 2014, p.275" (PDF). ^ Roisah, Kholis (2017-12-26). "Understanding Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights Agreement: From Hard and Soft Law Perspective". Hasanuddin Law Review. 3 (3): 277–289. doi:10.20956/halrev.v3i3.1153. ISSN 2442-9899. ^ WTO (2013): Intellectual Property; Responding to least developed countries’ special needs in intellectual property; https://www.wto.org/english/tratop_e/trips_e/ldc_e.htm ^ Article 1(2) of the Paris Convention: "The protection of industrial property has as its object patents, utility models, industrial designs, trademarks, service marks, trade names, indications of source or appellations of origin, and the repression of unfair competition." ^ "Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property". WIPO. Retrieved 25 September 2018. ^ WIPO Intellectual Property Handbook: Policy, Law and Use. Chapter 2: Fields of Intellectual Property Protection WIPO 2008 ^ a b WIPO (2008); “What is Intellectual Property” Handbook: WIPO Publication No. 450(E) ISBN 978-92-805-1555-0, available: http://www.wipo.int/edocs/pubdocs/en/intproperty/450/wipo_pub_450.pdf ^ Peter K, Yu (2007). Intellectual Property and Information Wealth: Copyright and related rights. Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 346. ISBN 978-0-275-98883-8. ^ World Intellectual Property Organisation. "Understanding Copyright and Related Rights" (PDF). WIPO. p. 8. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-06-06. Retrieved 2008-08-01. ^ Simon, Stokes (2001). Art and copyright. Hart Publishing. pp. 48–49. ISBN 978-1-84113-225-9. ^ "Trademark, Patent, or Copyright?". United States Patent and Trademark Office. Department of Commerce. 13 December 2015. Archived from the original on 13 December 2012. Retrieved 23 November 2015. ^ "What is a trade mark (or brand)?". Intellectual Property Office. Archived from the original on 3 July 2012. Retrieved 22 December 2012. A trade mark is a sign which can distinguish your goods and services from those of your competitors (you may refer to your trade mark as your "brand"). ^ "Trade Marks". Deutsches Patent- und Markenamt. 28 November 2014. Archived from the original on 29 November 2014. Retrieved 28 March 2019. Trade marks identify the goods and services of particular traders ^ Merges, Robert P.; Menell, Peter S.; Lemley, Mark A. (2007). Intellectual Property in the New Technological Age (4th rev. ed.). New York: Wolters Kluwer. p. 29. ISBN 978-0-7355-6989-8. ^ Farah, Paolo Davide; Tremolada, Riccardo (March 15, 2014). "Desirability of Commodification of Intangible Cultural Heritage: The Unsatisfying Role of Intellectual Property Rights". Transnational Dispute Management. 11 (2). SSRN 2472339. ^ Doris Schroeder and Peter Singer (May 2009). "Prudential Reasons for IPR Reform. A Report for Innova-P2" (PDF). CAPPE, University of Melbourne. Archived from the original (PDF) on September 27, 2011. Retrieved July 17, 2019. ^ "Copyright & Fair Use". Stanford University Libraries. 2013-04-09. Retrieved 26 June 2017. ^ Levine, David; Michele Boldrin (2008-09-07). Against intellectual monopoly (PDF). Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-87928-6. ^ Bollyky, Thomas (10 April 2013). "Why Chemotherapy That Costs $70,000 in the U.S. Costs $2,500 in India". The Atlantic. The Atlantic Monthly Group. Retrieved 18 April 2013. ^ Brassell, King, Martin, Kelvin (2013). Banking on IP? (PDF). Newport, Wales: The Intellectual Property Office. p. 15. ISBN 978-1-908908-86-5. ^ "The Concept of Intellectual Property" (PDF). WIPO. p. 3. Retrieved 28 March 2019. ^ "Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement" (PDF). Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada. p. 24. Archived from the original (PDF) on May 7, 2012. Retrieved 28 March 2019. ^ Shapiro, Robert J.; Pham, Nam D.; Blinder, Alan S. (July 2007). "Economic Effects of Intellectual Property-Intensive Manufacturing in the United States" (PDF). Sonecon.com. World Growth. p. 29. Retrieved 17 August 2015. ^ Shapiro, Robert; Pham, Nam; Blinder, Alan S. (July 2007). "Economic Effects of Intellectual Property-Intensive Manufacturing in the United States". the-value-of-ip.org. Archived from the original on 16 February 2008. Retrieved 28 March 2019. ^ "Measuring the Economic Impact of IP Systems". WIPO. 19 September 2007. Archived from the original on 21 May 2017. Retrieved 28 March 2019. ^ "The Universal Declaration of Human Rights". United Nations. Retrieved October 25, 2011. ^ WIPO – The World Intellectual Property Organization. "Human Rights and Intellectual Property: An Overview". Archived from the original on October 22, 2011. Retrieved October 25, 2011. ^ Moore, Adam (2014). "Intellectual Property". Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University. ^ Ronald V. Bettig. "Critical Perspectives on the History and Philosophy of Copyright" in Copyrighting Culture: The Political Economy of Intellectual Property, by Ronald V. Bettig. (Boulder, CO: Westview Press, 1996), 19–20 ^ Richard T. De George, "14. Intellectual Property Rights," in The Oxford Handbook of Business Ethics, by George G. Brenkert and Tom L. Beauchamp, vol. 1, 1st ed. (Oxford, England: Oxford University Press, n.d.), 415–416. ^ Richard T. De George, "14. Intellectual Property Rights," in The Oxford Handbook of Business Ethics, by George G. Brenkert and Tom L. Beauchamp, vol. 1, 1st ed. (Oxford, England: Oxford University Press, n.d.), 416. ^ a b Spinello, Richard A. (January 2007). "Intellectual property rights". Library Hi Tech. 25 (1): 12–22. doi:10.1108/07378830710735821. ^ Richard T. De George, "14. Intellectual Property Rights," in The Oxford Handbook of Business Ethics, by George G. Brenkert and Tom L. Beauchamp, vol. 1, 1st ed. (Oxford, England: Oxford University Press, n.d.), 417. ^ Richard T. De George, "14. Intellectual Property Rights," in The Oxford Handbook of Business Ethics, by George G. Brenkert and Tom L. Beauchamp, vol. 1, 1st ed. (Oxford, England: Oxford University Press, n.d.), 418. ^ The Law of Intellectual Property, Part 1 Chapter 1 Section 9 – Lysander Spooner ^ Rand, Ayn (1967) [1966]. Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal (paperback 2nd ed.). New York: Signet. ^ a b c Miriam Bitton (2012) Rethinking the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement's Criminal Copyright Enforcement Measures The Journal of Criminal Law & Criminology 102(1):67–117 ^ Article 69 EPC ^ Pradip K. Sahu and Shannon Mrksich, Ph.D. The Hatch-Waxman Act: When Is Research Exempt from Patent Infringement? ABA-IPL Newsletter 22(4) Summer 2004 ^ Matthew L. Cutler (2008) International Patent Litigation Survey: A Survey of the Characteristics of Patent Litigation in 17 International Jurisdictions Archived 2013-09-22 at the Wayback Machine ^ Panethiere, Darrell (July–September 2005). "The Persistence of Piracy: The Consequences for Creativity, for Culture, and for Sustainable Development" (PDF). UNESCO e-Copyright Bulletin. p. 2. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2008-08-16. ^ Correa, Carlos Maria; Li, Xuan (2009). Intellectual property enforcement: international perspectives. Edward Elgar Publishing. p. 211. ISBN 978-1-84844-663-2. ^ a b Irina D. Manta Spring 2011 The Puzzle of Criminal Sanctions for Intellectual Property Infringement Harvard Journal of Law & Technology 24(2):469–518 ^ Mike Masnick (6 March 2008). "If Intellectual Property Is Neither Intellectual, Nor Property, What Is It?". techdirt.com. Techdirt. Archived from the original on 13 August 2014. Retrieved 17 August 2014. ^ Richard M. Stallman. "Did You Say 'Intellectual Property'? It's a Seductive Mirage". Free Software Foundation, Inc. Retrieved 2008-03-28. ^ Richard M. Stallman. "Words to Avoid (or Use with Care) Because They Are Loaded or Confusing". The GNU Project. Retrieved 2016-12-01. ^ Boldrin, Michele, and David K. Levine. Against intellectual monopoly Archived 2017-12-06 at the Wayback Machine. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2008. ^ Michele Boldrin and David K. Levine (2009): “Intellectual Property Rights and Economic Growth in the Long-Run”; A model Discovery, available; http://levine.sscnet.ucla.edu/papers/aea_pp09.pdf Archived 2017-08-09 at the Wayback Machine ^ Stallman, Richard (19 April 2001). "copyright and globalization in the age of computer networks". mit.edu. Archived from the original on 2 March 2015. Retrieved 21 October 2015. ^ Stallman, Richard. "Misinterpreting Copyright". gnu.org. Archived from the original on 5 September 2015. Retrieved 21 October 2015. ^ a b "Against perpetual copyright". ^ Doctorow, Cory (2008-02-21). ""Intellectual property" is a silly euphemism". The Guardian. Retrieved 2008-02-23. ^ Stephan Kinsella (2001) Against Intellectual Property Journal of Libertarian Studies 15(2):1–53 ^ Rick Falkvinge (14 July 2013). "Language Matters: Framing The Copyright Monopoly So We Can Keep Our Liberties". torrentfreak.com. Archived from the original on 4 June 2014. Retrieved 17 August 2014. ^ Alexandre Oliva. "1984+30: GNU speech to defeat e-newspeak" (PDF). Retrieved 17 August 2014. ^ Stephan Kinsella for Ludwig von Mises Institute blog, January 6, 2011. Intellectual Poverty ^ Official drm.info site run by the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) ^ "What is DRM?". Defective by Design. Retrieved 2015-08-17. ^ Birgitte Andersen. "'Intellectual Property Right' Or 'Intellectual Monopoly Privilege: Which One Should Patent Analysts Focus On?" CONFERENCIA INTERNACIONAL SOBRE SISTEMAS DE INOVAÇÃO E ESTRATÉGIAS DE DESENVOLVIMENTO PARA O TERCEIRO MILÊNIO. Nov 2003 ^ Martin, G; Sorenson, C; Faunce, TA (2007). "Balancing intellectual monopoly privileges and the need for essential medicines". Globalization and Health. 3: 4. doi:10.1186/1744-8603-3-4. PMC 1904211. PMID 17565684. Balancing the need to protect the intellectual property rights (IPRs) (which the third author considers are more accurately described as intellectual monopoly privileges (IMPs)) of pharmaceutical companies, with the need to ensure access to essential medicines in developing countries is one of the most pressing challenges facing international policy makers today. ^ Birgitte Andersen. 'Intellectual Property Right' Or 'Intellectual Monopoly Privilege': Which One Should Patent Analysts Focus On? Archived 2013-05-02 at the Wayback Machine Conferência Internacional Sobre Sistemas De Inovação E Estratégias De Desenvolvimento Para O Terceiro Milênio. Nov. 2003 ^ Martin, G; Sorenson, C; Faunce, TA (2007). "Editorial: Balancing the need to protect the intellectual property rights (IPRs)". Globalization and Health. 3: 4. doi:10.1186/1744-8603-3-4. PMC 1904211. PMID 17565684. ^ On patents – Daniel B. Ravicher (August 6, 2008). "Protecting Freedom In The Patent System: The Public Patent Foundation's Mission and Activities". ^ Stiglitz, Joseph (October 13, 2006). "Authors@Google: Joseph Stiglitz – Making Globalization Work". ^ Stallman's got company: Researcher wants nanotech patent moratorium – Ars Technica ^ Freeze on nanotechnology patents proposed to help grow the sector Archived 2014-03-02 at the Wayback Machine- Wired UK 11-23-2012 ^ Moser, Petra. 2013. "Patents and Innovation: Evidence from Economic History." Journal of Economic Perspectives, 27(1): 23–44. ^ Baten, Jörg; Bianchi, Nicola; Moser, Petra (2017). "Compulsory licensing and innovation–Historical evidence from German patents after WWI". Journal of Development Economics. 126: 231–242. doi:10.1016/j.jdeveco.2017.01.002. ^ Peter Drahos and John Braithwaite. Information Feudalism: Who Owns the Knowledge Economy?, Earthscan 2002 ^ WIPO – World Intellectual Property Organization. "Human Rights and Intellectual Property: An Overview". Archived from the original on October 22, 2011. Retrieved October 25, 2011. ^ Staff, UN Committee on Economic Social and Cultural Rights. Geneva, November 12–30, 2001. Human rights and intellectual property ^ Chapman, Audrey R. (December 2002). "The Human Rights Implications of Intellectual Property Protection". Journal of International Economic Law. 5 (4): 861–882. doi:10.1093/jiel/5.4.861. Retrieved February 9, 2013. ^ The Geneva Declaration on the Future of the World Intellectual Property Organization ^ a b Sonderholm, Jorn (2010). "Ethical Issues Surrounding Intellectual Property Rights". Philosophy Compass. 5 (12): 1107–1115. doi:10.1111/j.1747-9991.2010.00358.x. ^ Stephan Kinsella, "What It Means To Be an Anarcho-Capitalist", "LewRockwell.com", published 2004-01-20, archived 2018-04-15. Retrieved 2018-08-04 ^ N. Stephan Kinsella, Against Intellectual property (2008), p. 44. ^ Thomas Jefferson, Letter to Isaac McPherson (August 13, 1813) ^ Boyle, James (14 October 2005). Protecting the public domain. The Guardian. ^ Bennet, Philip (2009). "Native Americans and Intellectual Property: the Necessity of Implementing Collective Ideals into Current United States Intellectual Property Laws". SSRN 1498783. Cite journal requires |journal= (help) ^ Council for Responsible Genetics, "DNA Patents Create Monopolies on Living Organisms". Retrieved 2008.12.18. ^ Plant Patents USPTO.gov ^ E.g., the U.S. Copyright Term Extension Act, Pub.L. 105–298. ^ Mark Helprin, Op-ed: A Great Idea Lives Forever. Shouldn't Its Copyright? The New York Times, May 20, 2007. ^ Eldred v. Ashcroft Eldred v. Ashcroft, 537 U. S. 186 (2003) ^ Masnick, Mike (May 21, 2007). "Arguing For Infinite Copyright... Using Copied Ideas And A Near Total Misunderstanding Of Property". techdirt. ^ Library of Congress Copyright Office Docket No. 2012–12 Orphan Works and Mass Digitization Federal Register, Vol. 77, No. 204. Monday, October 22, 2012. Notices. PP 64555–64561; see p 64555 first column for international efforts and 3rd column for description of the problem. ^ Dennis Wharton, "MPAA's Rebel With Cause Fights for Copyright Coin," Variety (August 3, 1992), Vol. 348, No. 2, p. 18. ^ William W. Fisher III, The Growth of Intellectual Property:A History of the Ownership of Ideas in the United States Eigentumskulturen im Vergleich (Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht, 1999) ^ Smith, Brett (2007–2010). "A Quick Guide to GPLv3". Free Software Foundation. Retrieved 2013-02-15. ^ Katherine Beckman and Christa Pletcher (2009) Expanding Global Trademark Regulation Wake Forest Intellectual Property Law Journal 10(2): 215–239 ^ "Multinationals pay lower taxes than a decade ago". Financial Times. 11 March 2018. ^ "Intellectual Property Tax". KPMG. 4 December 2017. ^ "Intellectual Property and Tax Avoidance in Ireland". Fordham Intellectual Property, Media & Entertainment Law Journal. 30 August 2016. ^ Intellectual property (IP) has become the leading tax-avoidance vehicle."Intellectual Property Law Solutions to Tax Avoidance" (PDF). UCLA Law Review. 2015. ^ "Patently problematic". The Economist. August 2015. ^ "Intellectual Property Tax Planning in the light of Base Erosion and Profit Shifting". University of Tilburg. June 2017. ^ "Profit Shifting and "Aggressive" Tax Planning by Multinational Firms" (PDF). Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW). October 2013. p. 3. ^ a b "BEPS Project Background Brief" (PDF). OECD. January 2017. ^ "'Double Irish' limits Facebook's tax bill to €1.9m in Ireland". Financial Times. 5 December 2013. ^ "Multinationals replacing 'Double Irish' with new tax avoidance scheme". Raidió Teilifís Éireann. 14 November 2017. Cite journal requires |journal= (help) ^ "Google's 'Dutch Sandwich' Shielded 16 Billion Euros From Tax". Bloomberg. 2 January 2018. ^ "What Apple did next". Seamus Coffey, University College Cork. 24 January 2014. ^ "Tax Avoidance and the Irish Balance of Payments". Council on Foreign Relations. 25 April 2018. ^ "Accenture gets tax relief on $7bn of IP rights: Accenture". Irish Examiner. 24 January 2012. ^ "A Hybrid Approach: The Treatment of Foreign Profits under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act". Tax Foundation. 3 May 2018. ^ "Trump's US tax reform a significant challenge for Ireland". The Irish Times. 30 November 2017. ^ "Donald Trump singles out Ireland in tax speech". The Irish Times. 29 November 2017. ^ "Why Ireland faces a fight on the corporate tax front". The Irish Times. 14 March 2018. ^ "EU digital levy could hit tech FDI and tax revenue here". Irish Independent. 21 March 2018. ^ "What the EU's new taxes on the tech giants mean – and how they would hurt Ireland". thejournal.ie. 24 March 2018. ^ "New UN tax handbook: Lower-income countries vs OECD BEPS failure". Tax Justice Network. 11 September 2017. ^ Foroohar, Rana (30 August 2016). "Apple vs. the E.U. Is the Biggest Tax Battle in History". Time. Retrieved 14 November 2016. Sources[edit] Arai, Hisamitsu. "Intellectual Property Policies for the Twenty-First Century: The Japanese Experience in Wealth Creation", WIPO Publication Number 834 (E). 2000. wipo.int Bettig, R. V. (1996). Critical Perspectives on the History and Philosophy of Copyright. In R. V. Bettig, Copyrighting Culture: The Political Economy of Intellectual Property. (pp. 9–32). Boulder, CO: Westview Press. Boldrin, Michele and David K. Levine. "Against Intellectual Monopoly", 2008. dkleving.com Hahn, Robert W., Intellectual Property Rights in Frontier Industries: Software and Biotechnology, AEI Press, March 2005. Branstetter, Lee, Raymond Fishman and C. Fritz Foley. "Do Stronger Intellectual Property Rights Increase International Technology Transfer? Empirical Evidence from US Firm-Level Data". NBER Working Paper 11516. July 2005. weblog.ipcentral.info Connell, Shaun. "Intellectual Ownership". October 2007. rebithofffreedom.org De George, Richard T. "14. Intellectual Property Rights." In The Oxford Handbook of Business Ethics, by George G. Brenkert and Tom L. Beauchamp, 1:408–439. 1st ed. Oxford, England: Oxford University Press, n.d. Farah, Paolo and Cima, Elena. "China's Participation in the World Trade Organization: Trade in Goods, Services, Intellectual Property Rights and Transparency Issues" in Aurelio Lopez-Tarruella Martinez (ed.), El comercio con China. Oportunidades empresariales, incertidumbres jurídicas, Tirant lo Blanch, Valencia (Spain) 2010, pp. 85–121. ISBN 978-84-8456-981-7. Available at SSRN.com Farah, Paolo Davide, Tremolada Riccardo, Desirability of Commodification of Intangible Cultural Heritage: The Unsatisfying Role of IPRs, in TRANSNATIONAL DISPUTE MANAGEMENT, Special Issues "The New Frontiers of Cultural Law: Intangible Heritage Disputes", Volume 11, Issue 2, March 2014, ISSN 1875-4120 Available at SSRN.com Farah, Paolo Davide, Tremolada Riccardo, Intellectual Property Rights, Human Rights and Intangible Cultural Heritage, Journal of Intellectual Property Law, Issue 2, Part I, June 2014, ISSN 0035-614X, Giuffre, pp. 21–47. Available at SSRN.com Goldstein, Paul; Reese, R. Anthony (2008). Copyright, Patent, Trademark and Related State Doctrines: Cases and Materials on the Law of Intellectual Property (6th ed.). New York: Foundation Press. ISBN 978-1-59941-139-2. Gowers, Andrew. "Gowers Review of Intellectual Property". Her Majesty's Treasury, November 2006. hm-treasury.gov.uk ISBN 978-0-11-840483-9. Greenhalgh, C. & Rogers M., (2010). Innovation, Intellectual Property, and Economic Growth. New Jersey: Princeton University Press. Kinsella, Stephan. "Against Intellectual Property". Journal of Libertarian Studies 15.2 (Spring 2001): 1–53. mises.org Lai, Edwin. "The Economics of Intellectual Property Protection in the Global Economy". Princeton University. April 2001. dklevine.com Lee, Richmond K. Scope and Interplay of IP Rights Accralaw offices. Lessig, Lawrence. "Free Culture: How Big Media Uses Technology and the Law to Lock Down Culture and Control Creativity". New York: Penguin Press, 2004. free-culture.cc. Lindberg, Van. Intellectual Property and Open Source: A Practical Guide to Protecting Code. O'Reilly Books, 2008. ISBN 0-596-51796-3 | ISBN 978-0-596-51796-0 Maskus, Keith E. "Intellectual Property Rights and Economic Development". Case Western Reserve Journal of International Law, Vol. 32, 471. journals/jil/32-3/maskusarticle.pdf law.case.edu Mazzone, Jason. "Copyfraud". Brooklyn Law School, Legal Studies Paper No. 40. New York University Law Review 81 (2006): 1027. (Abstract.) Miller, Arthur Raphael, and Michael H. Davis. Intellectual Property: Patents, Trademarks, and Copyright. 3rd ed. New York: West/Wadsworth, 2000. ISBN 0-314-23519-1. Moore, Adam, "Intellectual Property", The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2011 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.), Morin, Jean-Frédéric, Paradigm Shift in the Global IP Regime: The Agency of Academics, Review of International Political Economy, vol. 21(2), 2014, pp. 275–309. Mossoff, A. 'Rethinking the Development of Patents: An Intellectual History, 1550–1800,' Hastings Law Journal, Vol. 52, p. 1255, 2001 Rozanski, Felix. "Developing Countries and Pharmaceutical Intellectual Property Rights: Myths and Reality" stockholm-network.org Perelman, Michael. Steal This Idea: Intellectual Property and The Corporate Confiscation of Creativity. Palgrave Macmillan, 2004. Rand, Ayn. "Patents and Copyrights" in Ayn Rand, ed. 'Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal,' New York: New American Library, 1966, pp. 126–128 Reisman, George. 'Capitalism: A Complete & Integrated Understanding of the Nature & Value of Human Economic Life,' Ottawa, Illinois: 1996, pp. 388–389 Schechter, Roger E., and John R. Thomas. Intellectual Property: The Law of Copyrights, Patents and Trademarks. New York: West/Wadsworth, 2003, ISBN 0-314-06599-7. Schneider, Patricia H. "International Trade, Economic Growth and Intellectual Property Rights: A Panel Data Study of Developed and Developing Countries". July 2004. mtholyoke.edu Shapiro, Robert and Nam Pham. "Economic Effects of Intellectual Property-Intensive Manufacturing in the United States". July 2007. the-value-of.ip.org. Retrieved 2008-04-09. Spooner, Lysander. "The Law of Intellectual Property; or An Essay on the Right of Authors and Inventors to a Perpetual Property in their Ideas". Boston: Bela Marsh, 1855. Vaidhyanathan, Siva. The Anarchist in the Library: How the Clash Between Freedom and Control Is Hacking the Real World and Crashing the System. New York: Basic Books, 2004. Burk, Dan L. & Mark A. Lemley (2009). The Patent Crisis and How the Courts Can Solve It. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0-226-08061-1. External links[edit] Wikiquote has quotations related to: Intellectual property Library resources about Intellectual property Resources in your library Resources in other libraries The European Audiovisual Observatory hosts articles on copyright legislature and covers media laws in their newsletter Internet/Media Piracy: Statistics & Facts—Statista v t e Intellectual property activism Issues Artificial scarcity Copyright infringement Copyright troll Digital rights management Gripe site Legal aspects of file sharing Mashup digital music videos Monopolies of knowledge Music piracy Orphan works Patents biological software software patent debate trolling Public domain Concepts All rights reversed Alternative compensation system Anti-copyright notice Business models for open-source software Copyleft Commercial use of copyleft works Commons-based peer production Electronic sell-through Free content Free software license Libertarian positions Open content Open-design movement Open Music Model Open patent Open-source Open-source hardware Open-source software Prize system contests Share-alike Video on demand Movements Access to Knowledge movement Anti-copyright Cultural environmentalism Free-culture movement Free software movement Organizations Pro-copyright Copyright Alliance Pro-copyleft Creative Commons Electronic Frontier Foundation Free Software Foundation Open Rights Group Organization for Transformative Works The Pirate Bay Piratbyrån Pirate Party Public Knowledge Sci-Hub Students for Free Culture People Cory Doctorow Alexandra Elbakyan Rick Falkvinge Lawrence Lessig Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Documentaries Steal This Film (2006, 2007) Good Copy Bad Copy (2007) RiP!: A Remix Manifesto (2008) TPB AFK: The Pirate Bay Away From Keyboard (2013) The Internet's Own Boy (2014) v t e Intellectualism General terms Intellect Intelligence Intellectual Intellectual giftedness Intellectual history Intellectual honesty Intellectual humility Intellectual inbreeding Intellectual functioning Intellectual property Intellectual rigor Intellectual virtue Intellectualisation Intelligentsia Rationalism Social/Technical Academia Education Public intellectual Female public intellectuals Philosophy Scholar Schools of thought Scientific method Thought Legal Intellectual property Organization infringement Outline Manufacturing Consent Ethnic/National Chinese intellectualism Chungin Intellectual movements in Iran Man of letters Literati belletrist Tui Manufacturing Consent Countermeasures Anti-intellectualism Atel Boffin Egghead Geek Intellectual cover Intellectual dishonesty Nerd March of Intellect Pseudointellectual Self-deception Related topics Age of Enlightenment Intellectual capital Intellectual dark web Intellectual disability FP Top 100 Global Thinkers Martyred Intellectuals Day The thinker Education portal Philosophy portal v t e Law Core subjects Administrative law Civil law Constitutional law Contract Criminal law Deed Equity Evidence International law Law of obligations Procedure Civil Criminal Property law Public law Restitution Statutory law Tort Other subjects Agricultural law Aviation law Banking law Bankruptcy Commercial law Competition law Conflict of laws Construction law Consumer protection Corporate law Cyberlaw Election law Energy law Entertainment law Environmental law Family law Financial law Financial regulation Health law History of the legal profession History of the American legal profession Immigration law Intellectual property International criminal law International human rights International slavery laws Jurimetrics Labour Law of war Legal archaeology Legal fiction Maritime law Media law Military law Probate Estate Will and testament Product liability Public international law Space law Sports law Tax law Transport law Trust law Women in law Sources of law Charter Code Constitution Custom Divine right Divine law Human rights Natural law Natural and legal rights Case law Precedent Law making Ballot measure Codification Decree Edict Executive order Proclamation Legislation Delegated legislation General executory decree Regulation Rulemaking Promulgation Repeal Treaty Concordat Statutory law Statute Act of Parliament Act of Congress (US) Legal systems Civil law Common law Chinese law Legal pluralism Religious law Canon law Hindu law Jain law Jewish law Sharia Roman law Socialist law Statutory law Xeer Yassa Legal theory Contract theory Critical legal studies Comparative law Feminist Fundamental theory of canon law Law and economics Legal formalism History International legal theory Principle of legality Rule of law Sociology Jurisprudence Adjudication Administration of justice Criminal justice Court-martial Dispute resolution Fiqh Lawsuit/Litigation Legal opinion Legal remedy Judge Justice of the peace Magistrate Judgment Judicial review Jurisdiction Jury Justice Practice of law Attorney Barrister Counsel Lawyer Legal representation Prosecutor Solicitor Question of fact Question of law Trial Trial advocacy Trier of fact Verdict Legal institutions Bureaucracy The bar The bench Civil society Court Election commission Executive Judiciary Law enforcement Legal education Law school Legislature Military Police Political party Tribunal Category Index Outline Portal v t e Property By owner Common Communal Community Crown Customary Cooperative Estate Private Public Self Social State By nature Croft Intangible Intellectual indigenous Personal Tangible real Commons Common land Common-pool resource Digital Global Information Knowledge Theory Bundle of rights Commodity fictitious commodities Common good (economics) Excludability First possession appropriation homestead principle Free-rider problem Game theory Georgism Gift economy Labor theory of property Law of rent rent-seeking Legal plunder Natural rights Ownership Property rights primogeniture usufruct women's Right to property Rivalry Tragedy of the commons anticommons Applications Acequia (watercourse) Ejido (agrarian land) Forest types Huerta Inheritance Land tenure Property law alienation easement restraint on alienation real estate title Rights Air Fishing Forest-dwelling (India) Freedom to roam Grazing pannage Hunting Land aboriginal indigenous squatting Littoral Mineral Bergregal Right of way Water prior-appropriation riparian Disposession/ redistribution Bioprospecting Collectivization Eminent domain Enclosure Eviction Expropriation Farhud Forced migration population transfer Illegal fishing Illegal logging Land reform Legal plunder Piracy Poaching Primitive accumulation Privatization Regulatory taking Slavery bride buying human trafficking spousal husband-selling wife selling wage Tax inheritance poll progressive property Theft Scholars (key work) Frédéric Bastiat Ronald Coase Henry George Garrett Hardin David Harvey John Locke Two Treatises of Government Karl Marx Marcel Mauss The Gift John Stuart Mill Elinor Ostrom Karl Polanyi The Great Transformation Pierre-Joseph Proudhon What Is Property? David Ricardo Murray N. Rothbard The Ethics of Liberty Jean-Jacques Rousseau The Social Contract Adam Smith The Wealth of Nations Categories: Property Property law by country v t e Intellectual property laws in the European Union (EU) Copyright Directives Computer Programs Directive (1991) Rental Directive (1992) Satellite and Cable Directive (1993) Copyright Duration Directive (1993) Database Directive (1996) Conditional Access Directive (1998) Electronic Commerce Directive 2000 (2000) Information Society Directive (2001) Resale Rights Directive (2001) Directive on the re-use of public sector information (2003) Enforcement Directive (2004) Copyright Term Directive (2006) Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market (2019) Customs Regulation 1383/2003 (2003) National laws France Germany Ireland Copyright law of Italy Netherlands Poland Romania Spain Sweden United Kingdom Trade mark Ireland United Kingdom European Union trade mark Trade Marks Directive (1988) Société des Produits Nestlé S.A. v. Cadbury UK Limited Patent Germany The Netherlands Romania Directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions (1998) European patent law Unified Patent Court Unitary patent Designs Hague Agreement (1999) Directive on the legal protection of designs (1998) Regulation on Community designs (2001) Community design Treaties Berne Convention Madrid system Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property Rome Convention for the Protection of Performers, Producers of Phonograms and Broadcasting Organisations TRIPS Agreement WIPO Copyright Treaty WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty Authority control GND: 4136832-0 HDS: 048078 LCCN: sh85067167 NARA: 10637584 NDL: 00576736 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Intellectual_property&oldid=945634074" Categories: Intellectual property law of the European Union Creativity Intellectual property law Social information processing Economics of the arts and literature Intangible assets Point of view Intellectualism Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Pages with listed invalid ISBNs CS1 errors: missing periodical Articles with short description All accuracy disputes Articles with disputed statements from July 2009 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from July 2015 Articles with unsourced statements from August 2018 Articles containing Spanish-language text Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with HDS identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with NARA identifiers Wikipedia articles with NDL identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikiquote Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? Asturianu Az?rbaycanca ????? Bân-lâm-gú ????????? Boarisch Bosanski Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français Galego ??? ??????? ?????? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano ????? ??????? ??????? Latina Latviešu Lietuvi? Magyar ?????????? ?????? Bahasa Melayu ?????? Nederlands ?????? ??? Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk O?zbekcha/??????? ?????? ????????? Polski Português Român? ??????? Scots Simple English Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ????? ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska ????? ??? ?????? Türkçe ?????????? ???? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 15 March 2020, at 05:56 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
