Jar'Edo Wens hoax - Wikipedia Jar'Edo Wens hoax From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Deliberately fictitious Wikipedia article which existed for almost 10 years The three edits of the anonymous user who added the hoax. The Jar'Edo Wens hoax was a deliberately fictitious Wikipedia article which existed for almost 10 years before being spotted in November 2014 and deleted in March 2015. At the time, it was the longest-lasting hoax article discovered in the history of Wikipedia. Contents 1 Origin 2 Spread 3 Discovery 4 See also 5 References Origin[edit] The "Jar'Edo Wens" article was created on May 29, 2005. It was only two sentences in length and cited no sources. It claimed to be about an Australian Aborigine god ("of earthly knowledge and physical might, created by Altjira to ensure that people did not get too arrogant or self-conceited. He is associated with victory and intelligence."), and was likely simply the name "Jared Owens", with different spacing, punctuation and casing.[1][2][3][4][5] The author, an unregistered user at an Australian IP address,[4] was active over an eleven-minute period in May 2005. Their only other contribution was to also add "Yohrmum" (likely being a re-spelling of "Your Mum") to a list of Australian deities. This was more quickly spotted and removed, however the "Jar'Edo Wens" article went on to last for over a decade before detection and deletion. Spread[edit] Over the subsequent decade, the "Jar'Edo Wens" hoax article was translated into other language editions of Wikipedia, including French, Polish, Russian and Turkish. Two language editions additionally included the shorter-lived "yohrmum" page. An entry was also created on Wikidata. The hoax was unwittingly copied into a book on atheism in 2012, as part of a list of 500 "gods and religions in history that have fallen out of favour".[6][5] Discovery[edit] The hoax lasted more than a decade on Wikipedia. New article creation had already been restricted to registered users since the Seigenthaler incident in September of 2005. Although this made new fake articles more difficult to establish, existing hoax articles (especially low-trafficked ones) could more easily go unnoticed.[7] In 2009, the article was tagged with the classification "multiple issues" including a lack of sources.[8] However it was only in November of 2014 that the article was flagged as a possible hoax. It was finally proposed for deletion on March 1, 2015 and the deletion was confirmed two days later by an administrator. Wikipediocracy, a website for Wikipedia criticism, publicised the hoax on March 15, 2015,[9] after which it was widely reported by more general news sites.[4] See also[edit] Look up Jar'Edo Wens in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Archived Jar'Edo Wens hoax on Wikipedia Deletion discussion on Wikipedia List of hoaxes on Wikipedia References[edit] ^ "The story behind Jar'Edo Wens, the longest-running hoax in Wikipedia history". Washington Post. ^ Caitlin Dewey, Washington Post (17 April 2015). "The story of Jar'Edo Wens, the longest-running Wikipedia hoax, and why it's so hard to police the free encyclopedia - National Post". National Post. ^ "The Wikipedia hoax that lasted nearly 10 years". thespec.com. ^ a b c "Aussie's Jar'Edo Wens prank sets new record as Wikipedia's longest-running hoax". The Sydney Morning Herald. ^ a b Andy Cush. "How One Man Made Himself Into an Aboriginal God With Wikipedia". Weird Internet. Gawker Media. Archived from the original on 2015-07-09. ^ McCormick, Matthew S. (2012). "Fiver Hundred Dead Gods and the Problems of Other Religions". Atheism and the Case Against Christ. Amherst, NY: Prometheus Books. ^ Goodin, Dan. "False claim has Wikipedia revising article-creation rules". Seattle Times. Retrieved 5 October 2015. ^ Peter Bodkin, Wikipedia’s longest-lived hoax has finally been outed, 23. März 2015, TheJournal.ie, bei: Yahoo News UK & Ireland. In Englisch ^ "Jared Owens, God of Wikipedia". Wikipediocracy. 2015-03-16. Retrieved 2019-08-16. v t e Wikipedia Overview (Outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing Criticism gender bias ideological bias racial bias Deletionism and inclusionism MediaWiki Notability Reliability Vandalism Predictions of the project's end Community Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Citation needed Edit-a-thon "Ignore all rules" policy List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikipedian in residence WikiConference North America Wikimania WikiProject Women in Red People Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Erik Möller Ira Brad Matetsky Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales Wikipedians Wikimedian of the Year History Bomis Logo Controversies U.S. Congressional staff edits Essjay controversy Seigenthaler biography incident Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Italian Wikipedia blackout English Wikipedia blackout Hillsborough Wikipedia posts MyWikiBiz Lsjbot VisualEditor Art+Feminism #1Lib1Ref Honors 2008 Quadriga award Wikipedia Monument 2015 Erasmus Prize 2015 Princess of Asturias Award References and analysis Cultural Bibliography Films Academic studies Listen to Wikipedia Wiki-Watch Wikipediocracy WikiScanner Wikipedia Review Mobile access Apps QRpedia Wapedia WikiNodes Wikipedia Zero Wikiwand Content use Books LLC Boundless (company) DBpedia Deletionpedia Kiwix WikiReader Science information Health information Similar projects Interpedia Nupedia Citizendium Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Everipedia Veropedia List of online encyclopedias List of wikis Related Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs Print Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) 274301 Wikipedia Viola wikipedia List Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Jar%27Edo_Wens_hoax&oldid=925502033" Categories: 2005 hoaxes Internet hoaxes Wikipedia controversies Fictional deities Fictitious entries Hidden categories: Articles with short description Articles containing Spanish-language text Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Deutsch ??? Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Bahasa Melayu Edit links This page was last edited on 10 November 2019, at 14:43 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
