Jisc - Wikipedia Jisc From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Joint Information Systems Committee) Jump to navigation Jump to search For the Japanese standards committee, see Japanese Industrial Standards Committee. This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article contains content that is written like an advertisement. Please help improve it by removing promotional content and inappropriate external links, and by adding encyclopedic content written from a neutral point of view. (July 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article relies too much on references to primary sources. Please improve this by adding secondary or tertiary sources. (December 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) ‹ The template Infobox organization is being considered for merging. › Jisc Formation 1 April 1993 (1993-04-01) Type not-for-profit company Purpose To enable people in higher education, further education and skills in the UK to perform at the forefront of international practice by exploiting fully the possibilities of modern digital empowerment, content and connectivity Headquarters Bristol Location Bristol, London, Manchester and Harwell, Oxfordshire Region served United Kingdom Chief executive Dr Paul Feldman[1] Website www.jisc.ac.uk Jisc (formerly the Joint Information Systems Committee) is a United Kingdom not-for-profit company[2] whose role is to support post-16 and higher education, and research, by providing relevant and useful advice, digital resources and network and technology services, while researching and developing new technologies and ways of working. It is funded by a combination of the UK further and higher education funding bodies, and individual higher education institutions.[3] Contents 1 Services 2 History 3 Structure 4 References 5 External links Services[edit] Jisc's vision is for the UK to be the most digitally-advanced higher education, further education and research nation in the world. Services offered include: Providing UK universities and colleges with shared digital infrastructure and services, such as the superfast JANET network Operating shared digital infrastructure and services, including: The Archives Hub, a catalogue of the collections of academic and other institutions SUNCAT, a catalogue of serial publications Negotiating sector-wide deals, such as the Jisc Collections licenses for academic journals as well as deals with IT vendors and commercial publishers Providing expert and trusted advice on digital technology for education and research, built from over 30 years’ experience. History[edit] Jisc was established on 1 April 1993 under the terms of letters of guidance from the Secretaries of State to the newly established Higher Education Funding Councils for England, Scotland and Wales, inviting them to establish a Joint Committee to deal with networking and specialist information services. JISC was to provide national vision and leadership for the benefit of the entire Higher Education sector. The organisation inherited the functions of the Information Systems Committee (ISC) and the Computer Board, which had served universities. An initial challenge was to support a much larger community of institutions, including the ex-polytechnics and higher education colleges. Four sub-committees initially supporting the JISC committee: their remits covered Networking; Awareness, Liaison and Training; Electronic Information and Technology Applications activities. In 1995, the Northern Ireland Department of Education became a full partner in JISC. The organisation expanded again in 1999 when the further education funding bodies became funding partners. This expansion prompted a restructuring and a new set of committees: JISC Committee for Authentication and Security (JCAS) November 1999 – January 2002. The work of this committee was taken over by JCN2 and JCIE3. JISC Committee for Electronic Information (JCEI) November 1999 – January 2002. The work of this committee was taken over by JCIE3 and JCCS4. JISC Committee for Integrated Environments for Learners (JCIEL) November 1999 – January 2002. The work of this committee was taken over by JCLT5. JISC Committee for Awareness, Liaison and Training (JCALT) The work of this committee was taken over by JOS6. JISC Committee on Networking (JCN2). The expansion also raised wider concerns about JISC's governance, and Professor Sir Brian Follett was appointed to carry out an independent enquiry. His report, published in November 2000, concluded that "JISC is perceived as a UK success story, providing a network of world-class standard and a range of excellent services. Importantly, it evolves continuously and is an excellent example of collaboration between the community and the funding bodies". However, Follett made various recommendations for reform, most of which were accepted by the funding bodies. A new structure was therefore put in place from December 2001, consisting of a JISC Board, advised by a steering committee made up of senior officers from each funding body. Six sub-committees fell under two main heads: strategy and policy committees, which aim to ensure that the needs of specific communities are met (in the fields of research, learning and teaching, and management); and functional committees, concentrating on specific areas of work (networking, information environment, and content acquisition). In January 2005, the Freedom of Information Act 2000 came into full effect, giving the public a general right to access all types of recorded information held by public bodies. JISC took an important lead in raising the Act's profile in the academic community and published its own FOI Publication Scheme. In the spring of 2005, the Learning and Skills Council (LSC) announced a reduction in its funding contribution to JISC. The LSC and JISC Executive negotiated a package of services that the LSC would continue to contribute towards in the future. Also in 2005, a number of strategies and policies for UK Higher and Further Education were published, reaffirming the importance of ICT: JISC was seen as taking an important role in supporting and implementing these strategies. In the same year, JISC signed agreements with several international partners: SURF Foundation in the Netherlands, cementing the considerable areas of co-operation between the two organisations; Australian Department for Education, Science and Training (DEST) supporting the e-Framework initiative which aims to develop a service-oriented approach to the development and integration of IT systems; Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (Germany), Denmark's Electronic Research Library (DEFF) and SURF to create the Knowledge exchange which aims to increase the return on investment by the individual organisations in ICT infrastructure, services and projects. Under the Government Spending Review 2004, JISC was awarded additional funding of £81 million for the period April 2006 to March 2009, and was able to launch a range of new programmes to support the work of the higher education and research community. Funding for SuperJANET5 was provided by all JISC's funding partners. Other activities were funded by the Higher Education Funding Councils for England and Wales. A review of JISC's work, commissioned by the Higher Education Funding Council for England under the chairmanship of Professor Sir Alan Wilson, was published in February 2011. One of the principal findings of the review was that there is no comparable body to JISC within the UK, and internationally its reputation is outstanding as a strategic leader and partner. The Review concluded that, "JISC is an invaluable national resource which has evolved in response to increasing demands over 20 years". However, the Review also recommended that, due to the breadth and complexity of JISC's activity, its structure, processes, projects, programmes and governance need to be simplified and reshaped: "[i]n an era of financial constraint, it is necessary to refocus activities around clearer priorities, and to ensure JISC operates with a sustainable financial model".[4] Structure[edit] Ronald Urwick Cooke, then recently retired as Vice-Chancellor of the University of York, was appointed Chair of JISC in 2004, and served until 2008. He was succeeded by Timothy O'Shea, Principal and Vice-Chancellor of the University of Edinburgh, who was appointed with effect from 1 January 2009. Martin Hall, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Salford served as Chair until 2015 when he was replaced by David Maguire, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Greenwich. From February 2012 the Chief Executive was Martyn Harrow, who was succeeded by Paul Feldman in October 2015.[1] References[edit] ^ a b "Appointment of new Jisc chief executive". Jisc. Retrieved 21 October 2015. ^ "Company and charity details". Jisc. Jisc. Retrieved 3 May 2016. ^ "How we are funded". Jisc. Retrieved 21 October 2015. ^ HEFCE. Feb 2011. Review of the Joint Information Systems Committee Accessed: 31 March 2012 External links[edit] Jisc website Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Jisc&oldid=922532509" Categories: Organizations established in 1993 University organizations Information technology organisations based in the United Kingdom JISC Funding bodies in the United Kingdom Organisations based in Bristol Educational organisations based in London Hidden categories: Articles with a promotional tone from July 2015 All articles with a promotional tone Articles lacking reliable references from December 2011 All articles lacking reliable references Articles with multiple maintenance issues EngvarB from September 2013 Use dmy dates from September 2013 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Deutsch Edit links This page was last edited on 22 October 2019, at 18:37 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Frank@Emil.ca
