Knowledge Graph - Wikipedia Knowledge Graph From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article is about Google's specific implementation of knowledge graph technology. For knowledge engine technology in general, see Knowledge engine. For knowledge graphs in information science, see Knowledge graph. Knowledge Graph data about Thomas Jefferson displayed on Google Search, as of January 2015 The Knowledge Graph is a knowledge base used by Google and its services to enhance its search engine's results with information gathered from a variety of sources. The information is presented to users in an infobox next to the search results. Knowledge Graph infoboxes were added to Google's search engine in May 2012, starting in the United States, with international expansion by the end of the year.[1] The information covered by the Knowledge Graph grew significantly after launch, tripling its size within seven months (covering 570 million entities and 18 billion facts[2]) and answering "roughly one-third" of the 100 billion monthly searches Google processed in May 2016. The Knowledge Graph has been criticized for providing answers without source attribution or citation. Information from the Knowledge Graph is presented as a box, which Google has referred to as the "knowledge panel", to the right (top on mobile) of search results.[3] According to Google, this information is retrieved from many sources, including the CIA World Factbook, Wikidata, and Wikipedia.[4][5] In October 2016, Google announced that the Knowledge Graph held over 70 billion facts.[6] There is no official documentation on the technology used for the Knowledge Graph implementation.[7] Information from the Knowledge Graph is used to answer direct spoken questions in Google Assistant[8][9] and Google Home voice queries.[10] Contents 1 History 2 Criticism 2.1 Lack of source attribution 2.2 Declining Wikipedia article readership 3 See also 4 References History[edit] Google announced Knowledge Graph on May 16, 2012, as a way to significantly enhance the value of information returned by Google searches.[4] Initially only available in English, the Knowledge Graph was expanded in December 2012 to Spanish, French, German, Portuguese, Japanese, Russian, and Italian.[11] Support for Bengali was added in March, 2017.[12] The Knowledge Graph was powered in part by Freebase.[13] In August 2014, New Scientist reported that Google had launched Knowledge Vault.[14] After publication, Google reached out to Search Engine Land to explain that Knowledge Vault was a research paper, not an active Google service, and in its report, Search Engine Land referenced indications by the company that "numerous models" were being experimented with to examine the possibility of automatically gathering meaning from text.[15] The Knowledge Vault was meant to deal with facts, automatically gathering and merging information from across the Internet into a knowledge base capable of answering direct questions, such as "Where was Madonna born". It was reported that its main ability over the Knowledge Graph was to gather information automatically rather than relying on crowd sourced facts compiled by humans; by the time of the 2014 report, it had collected over 1.6 billion facts, 271 million of which were considered "confident facts", a term for information deemed more than 90% true. Criticism[edit] Lack of source attribution[edit] By May 2016, knowledge boxes were appearing for "roughly one-third" of the estimated 100 billion monthly searches the company processed. Dario Taraborelli, head of research at the Wikimedia Foundation, told The Washington Post that Google's omission of sources in its knowledge boxes "undermines people’s ability to verify information and, ultimately, to develop well-informed opinions". The publication also reported that the boxes are "frequently unattributed", such as a knowledge box on the age of actress Betty White, which is "as unsourced and absolute as if handed down by God".[16] Declining Wikipedia article readership[edit] According to The Register, the implementation of direct answers in Google search results has caused significant readership declines for the online encyclopedia Wikipedia, from which the Knowledge Graph obtains some of its information.[17] The Daily Dot noted in 2014 that "Wikipedia still has no real competitor as far as actual content is concerned. All that's up for grabs are traffic stats. And as a nonprofit, traffic numbers don't equate into revenue in the same way they do for a commercial media site". After the article's publication, a spokesperson for the Wikimedia Foundation, which operates Wikipedia, stated that it "welcomes" the Knowledge Graph functionality, that it was "looking into" the traffic drops, and that "We've also not noticed a significant drop in search engine referrals. We also have a continuing dialog with staff from Google working on the Knowledge Panel".[18] See also[edit] Internet portal DBpedia Google Assistant Linked data Ontology (information science) – also called knowledge graphs Semantic integration Wikidata References[edit] ^ Singhal, Amit (May 16, 2012). "Introducing the Knowledge Graph: Things, Not Strings". Google Official Blog. Retrieved September 6, 2014. ^ Newton, Casey (December 4, 2012). "Google's Knowledge Graph tripled in size in seven months". CNET. CBS Interactive. Retrieved December 10, 2017. ^ "Your business information in the Knowledge Panel". Google My Business Help. Google. Retrieved December 10, 2017. ^ a b Singhal, Amit (May 16, 2012). "Introducing the Knowledge Graph: things, not strings". Official Google Blog. Google. Retrieved December 10, 2017. ^ Schwartz, Barry (December 17, 2014). "Google's Freebase To Close After Migrating To Wikidata: Knowledge Graph Impact?". Search Engine Roundtable. Retrieved December 10, 2017. ^ Vincent, James (October 4, 2016). "Apple boasts about sales; Google boasts about how good its AI is". The Verge. Vox Media. Retrieved December 10, 2017. ^ Ehrlinger, Lisa; Wöß, Wolfram (2016). "Towards a Definition of Knowledge Graphs" (PDF). ^ Lynley, Matthew (May 18, 2016). "Google unveils Google Assistant, a virtual assistant that's a big upgrade to Google Now". TechCrunch. Oath Inc. Retrieved December 10, 2017. ^ Kovach, Steve (October 4, 2016). "Google is going to win the next major battle in computing". Business Insider. Axel Springer SE. Retrieved December 10, 2017. ^ Bohn, Dieter (May 18, 2016). "Google Home: a speaker to finally take on the Amazon Echo". The Verge. Vox Media. Retrieved December 10, 2017. ^ Newton, Casey (December 14, 2012). "How Google is taking the Knowledge Graph global". CNET. CBS Interactive. Retrieved December 10, 2017. ^ "Making it easier to Search in Bengali". Official Google India Blog. Retrieved January 26, 2018. ^ Singhal, Amit (May 16, 2012). "Introducing the Knowledge Graph: Things, Not Strings". Google Official Blog. Retrieved July 31, 2019. ^ Hodson, Hal (August 20, 2014). "Google's fact-checking bots build vast knowledge bank". New Scientist. Retrieved December 10, 2017. ^ Sterling, Greg (August 25, 2014). "Google "Knowledge Vault" To Power Future Of Search". Search Engine Land. Retrieved December 10, 2017. ^ Dewey, Caitlin (May 11, 2016). "You probably haven't even noticed Google's sketchy quest to control the world's knowledge". The Washington Post. Retrieved December 10, 2017. ^ Orlowski, Andrew (January 13, 2014). "Google stabs Wikipedia in the front". The Register. Retrieved December 10, 2017. ^ Kloc, Joe (January 8, 2014). "Is Google accidentally killing Wikipedia?". The Daily Dot. Retrieved December 10, 2017. v t e Computable knowledge Topics and concepts Alphabet of human thought Authority control Automated reasoning Commonsense knowledge Commonsense reasoning Computability Formal system Inference engine Knowledge base Knowledge-based systems Knowledge engineering Knowledge extraction Knowledge representation Knowledge retrieval Library classification Logic programming Ontology Personal knowledge base Question answering Semantic reasoner Proposals and implementations Zairja Ars Magna (1300) An Essay towards a Real Character, and a Philosophical Language (1688) Calculus ratiocinator and characteristica universalis (1700) Dewey Decimal Classification (1876) Begriffsschrift (1879) Mundaneum (1910) Logical atomism (1918) Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus (1921) Hilbert's program (1920s) Incompleteness theorem (1931) World Brain (1938) Memex (1945) General Problem Solver (1959) Prolog (1972) Cyc (1984) Semantic Web (2001) Evi (2007) Wolfram Alpha (2009) Watson (2011) Siri (2011) Knowledge Graph (2012) Wikidata (2012) Cortana (2014) Viv (2016) In fiction The Engine (Gulliver's Travels, 1726) Joe ("A Logic Named Joe", 1946) The Librarian (Snow Crash, 1992) Dr. Know (A.I. Artificial Intelligence, 2001) Waterhouse (The Baroque Cycle, 2003) See also: Logic machines in fiction and List of fictional computers v t e Google Alphabet Inc. History Outline List of products List of mergers and acquisitions Company Criticism 2018 walkouts Censorship Criticism Dragonfly Litigation Privacy concerns Street View San Francisco tech bus protests Worker organization Events Android Developer Challenge Developer Day Developer Lab Doodle4Google Code-in Code Jam Developer Day Developers Live I/O Lunar XPRIZE Science Fair Summer of Code Talks at Google Initiatives / Projects ATAP Dragonfly Made with Code Sunroof Cultural Institute People Al Gore Alan Eustace Alan Mulally Amit Singhal Ann Mather David Drummond Eric Schmidt Jeff Dean John Doerr John L. Hennessy Krishna Bharat Matt Cutts Patrick Pichette Paul Otellini Omid Kordestani Rachel Whetstone Rajen Sheth Ram Shriram Ray Kurzweil Ruth Porat Salar Kamangar Sanjay Ghemawat Shirley M. Tilghman Sundar Pichai (CEO) Susan Wojcicki Urs Hölzle Vint Cerf Hal Varian Real Estates 111 Eighth Avenue Chelsea Market Googleplex Data centers Divisions Android Glass Google Ads Google AI Google Chrome Google Cloud Google Maps Google Nest Google Pixel Google Search YouTube Development Chrome Experiments Data Transfer Project Material Design OpenSocial Web Server Programming languages Dart Go Sawzall Operating systems Android Android Automotive Android TV Wear OS Chrome OS Fuchsia Libraries / Frameworks AMP Angular Angular AngularJS ARCore APIs Charts Dialogflow Flutter Guava Guice Polymer Web Components Tango TensorFlow Tools App Inventor (MIT) App Maker Closure Toos Gadgets API GData Lighthouse Native Client Octane OpenRefine PageSpeed reCAPTCHA Search Console Swiffy Web Toolkit Website Optimizer Search algorithms PageRank Hummingbird Panda Penguin Pigeon RankBrain Platforms Cloud Platform App Engine Apps Script Firebase Kubernetes Services Arts & Culture Assistant Chrome Android Chromium Classroom Cloud Print Earth Express Fi Gboard Now Safe Browsing Station Entertainment Chromecast Play Books Games Movies & TV Music Podcasts Stadia Vevo YouTube Gaming Kids Music Communication Contacts Duo Gmail Groups Hangouts Hangouts Chat Hangouts Meet IME Japanese Pinyin Inbox Messages Spaces Talk Translate Voice Organization Calendar Photos Google Drive Docs Sheets Slides Drawings Forms Keep Business / Finance AdMob Analytics Ad Grants Ad Manager Ads AdSense Business Groups Marketing Platform Pay Primer Tag Manager Search Alerts Blog Search Books Dataset Search Dictionary Flights Finance Googlebot Images Maps News Patents Public Data Scholar Search Knowledge Graph Personalized SafeSearch Voice Search Shopping Trends Insights for Search Videos Images / Photo Camera Lens Snapseed Photos Publishing Blogger Domains Feedburner Sites Hardware Chromecast Home Chromebox Virtual Reality / Display Cardboard Daydream Contact Lens Glass Smartphones Nexus Pixel Google Nest Nest Protect Nest Learning Thermostat Nest WiFi Laptops and tablets Chromebook Pixelbook Chromebook Pixel Pixel Slate Related Documentaries Google: Behind the Screen Google: The Thinking Factory Google and the World Brain The Creepy Line Terms and phrases "Don't be evil" Gayglers Google (verb) Google bombing Google Developer Expert Googlization Italics indicate discontinued products, services, or defunct companies. Category Companies portal Internet portal Discontinued products and services Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Knowledge_Graph&oldid=933616926" Categories: Google Search Internet search engines Knowledge bases Products introduced in 2012 Hidden categories: Use mdy dates from May 2012 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? ????? ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)? Español ????? Français ??? Italiano ????? ??? Polski Português ??????? Simple English Suomi Türkçe ?????????? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 2 January 2020, at 02:41 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
