Latin Wikipedia - Wikipedia Latin Wikipedia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Latin Wikipedia Type of site Internet encyclopedia project Available in Latin Headquarters Miami, Florida, United States Owner Wikimedia Foundation Created by Jimmy Wales URL la.wikipedia.org Commercial No Registration Optional Launched May 2002 The Latin Wikipedia (Latin: Vicipaedia Latina) is the Latin language edition of Wikipedia, created in May 2002. As of March 2020, it has about 132,000 articles. While all primary content is in Latin, in discussions modern languages such as English, Italian, French, German or Spanish are often used, since many users (usores) find this easier. Professional Latinists have observed a gradual improvement in the encyclopedia. According to Robert Gurval, chairman of the UCLA classics department,[1] "the articles that are good are in fact very good," though some contributors do not write the language perfectly. Contents 1 Modern vocabulary and coining policies 2 Orthography 3 Topics 4 Gallery 5 See also 6 References 7 External links Modern vocabulary and coining policies[edit] The Latin Wikipedia began dominated by topics from classical history, but beginning in 2006 a group of new contributors greatly expanded the coverage of 20th-century topics, such as pop culture and technology.[1] The official policy of Vicipaedia is that neologisms and user coinings aren't allowed ("Noli fingere!" Latin for "Don't coin/make up things").[2] In order to deal with concepts that did not exist in Classical or Medieval Latin, terms from modern Latin sources are used, such as botanical Latin, scientific Latin, 18th- and 19th-century Latin language encyclopedias and books, the official Vatican dictionary of modern Latin,[3] as well as current Latin newspapers and radio shows, such as Ephemeris[4] and Radio Bremen.[5] As in any language with a broad international character, often more than one correct term exists for a given concept (just as in English a certain car part is called a "bonnet" by British speakers but a "hood" by Americans). In Latin the existence of multiple synonyms is even more prevalent since the language has been in continuous use over a wide geographical area for over 2000 years. Sometimes the same concept is represented by different terms in classical, medieval, scientific and modern Latin. In general Vicipaedia adopts the oldest or classical term for the page name, with redirects from any others; major alternatives are listed in the article with footnote references. There is often lively debate among editors about shades of meaning. The practice of avoiding invented words and giving references for alternative terms agrees well with the general Wikipedia insistence on verifiability and the rule against original research. Many universities and other institutions[6] have official Latin names. In fields where Latin is the current standard language, Vicipaedia normally adopts official names as pagenames, even if they belong to scientific or technical, rather than to classical Latin. This applies to: names of Catholic dioceses Catholic official titles biological species and other taxa planets, asteroids, satellites and constellations topographical features on extraterrestrial bodies anatomical names names of diseases When occasionally a term for a modern concept cannot be found, the customary practice is to do exactly what most other languages do: to borrow an international word (often from a Romance language or English). Such direct borrowing was done for the particle names photon and gluon and for the unit of temperature Kelvin. The word is given a Latin morphology if this can be done easily, or, if not, used unchanged in its foreign form; but many international words already have a Latin or Graeco-Latin appearance, because Greek and Latin have always served as sources of new scientific terminology. Orthography[edit] Main article: Latin spelling and pronunciation Vicipaedia made it policy[7] for all to follow the more widespread contemporary late 20th century orthographical habit of distinguishing u (pronounced as [u]) from v (pronounced as [w] in Classical Latin and as [v] in Ecclesiastical Latin) but not i (pronounced as [i]) from j (pronounced as [j] in both Classical and Ecclesiastical Latin). This orthographical practice was not without detractors, who claimed that it is a copy of the Italian spelling reform in which the i/j distinction is lost but the u/v distinction is maintained.[8] The logo on the Vicipaedia main page reads "VICIPÆDIA", displaying a ligature "æ". However, in accordance with contemporary practice, Vicipaedia does not use ligatures in its articles for the diphthongs written ae ("Æ", "æ") and oe ("Œ", "œ"), even though in Latin a diphthong like the ae in aes is pronounced differently from an hiatus like the ae in aer, both in the classical and even more so in the Italianate pronunciation. The ligatures were adopted by the Romans to save space, and æ and œ in particular were later maintained by Latin typographers to distinguish the diphthong from the hiatus. Contemporary editors choose not to make this difference explicit to the reader. If Vicipaedia users prefer, however, they can activate a gadget under user preferences that automatically displays ae and oe as ligatures on the pages, although the gadget converts all cases, independently of whether they are diphthongs or hiatuses. Vicipaedia, in common with the majority of modern printed Latin, does not require the marking of long vowels in words (in Latin textbooks this is usually done by adding a macron over a character, as for example, the e in st?lla.) Thus, both terra and terr? are written simply as terra, although the former is in the nominative case, while the latter in the ablative. The context usually makes clear which one is being used. Topics[edit] In 2019 the Latin Wikipedia has 38 thousand unique categories. The average article in this language version has 5 categories, while number of unique categories per articles ratio is 0.293. The largest number of articles has Society (28%) and Geography (25%) category. In Latin Wikipedia articles related to Religion and Business has the highest average quality. Content about Religion is read more often and has the highest authors' interest on average.[9] Gallery[edit] Latin Wikipedia's 100,000 article logo (18 December 2013) See also[edit] List of Wikipedias References[edit] ^ a b Gomes, Lee (September 29, 2007). "Veni, Vidi, Wiki: Latin Isn't Dead on 'Vicipaedia' – Online Reference Features Britannia Spears, Disneyi; Disputing Computatrum". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved September 30, 2011. ^ la:Vicipaedia:Noli fingere/en ^ "Parvum Verborum Novatorum Lexicum". Vatican.va. Retrieved 2012-10-07. ^ "Ephemeris". Ephemeris.alcuinus.net. 2009-04-27. Retrieved 2012-10-07. ^ "Radiobremen". Radiobremen.de. 2009-02-02. Archived from the original on 2010-06-18. Retrieved 2012-10-07. ^ For example, the Royal Society, whose charter ([1]) is in Latin. ^ la:Vicipaedia:De orthographia/en ^ "Schola Latina Universalis". Avitus.alcuinus.net. Retrieved 2012-10-07. ^ Lewoniewski, W?odzimierz; W?cel, Krzysztof; Abramowicz, Witold (2019). "Multilingual Ranking of Wikipedia Articles with Quality and Popularity Assessment in Different Topics". Computers. 8 (3): 60. doi:10.3390/computers8030060. External links[edit] (in Latin) The Latin Wikipedia (in Latin) Latin Wikipedia mobile version Anne Mahoney, "Vicipaedia Latina: Encyclopedia and Community" at DCC: Dickinson College Commentaries. Also published in Classical Outlook vol. 90 no. 3 (Spring 2015) pp. 68–90 Latin edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia v t e List of Wikipedias by article count 6,000,000+ English 5,000,000+ Cebuano 3,000,000+ Swedish 2,000,000+ German French Dutch 1,000,000+ Russian Italian Spanish Polish Waray Vietnamese Japanese Chinese Arabic Portuguese Ukrainian 500,000+ Persian Catalan Serbian Norwegian (bokmål/riksmål) Indonesian 200,000+ Korean Finnish Hungarian Serbo-Croatian Czech Romanian Basque Turkish Malay Esperanto Armenian Bulgarian Hebrew Danish Chechen Southern Min Slovak Kazakh Minangkabau Croatian Estonian 100,000+ Lithuanian Belarusian Greek Southern Azerbaijani Slovene Galician Azerbaijani Simple English Norwegian (nynorsk) Urdu Hindi Thai Georgian Uzbek Latin Tamil Volapük Egyptian Arabic Welsh Macedonian Tajik Latvian Asturian 50,000+ Malagasy Occitan Tagalog Tatar Afrikaans Kyrgyz Bosnian Albanian Newar Cantonese Telugu Bengali Belarusian (Taraškievica) Breton Piedmontese Malayalam Javanese Luxembourgish Haitian Scots Marathi Swahili Irish Low Saxon Bashkir Silesian 20,000+ Western Punjabi Icelandic Chuvash West Frisian Sundanese Burmese Lombard Aragonese Yoruba Nepali Punjabi Gujarati Ido Bavarian Sicilian Bishnupriya Manipuri Alemannic Kurdish (Kurmanji) Kannada Kurdish (Sorani) Venetian Interlingua Quechua 10,000+ Acehnese Amharic Buginese Classical Chinese Eastern Min Faroese Mongolian Neapolitan Samogitian Scottish Gaelic Sinhalese Walloon Odia Yiddish Banyumasan Upper Sorbian Mazandarani Maithili Megrelian Limburgish Wu Sakha Sanskrit Ilokano Ossetian Hill Mari Emilian-Romagnol Sindhi Meadow Mari Pashto Zazaki Hakka Navajo Central Bicolano North Frisian 5,000+ Fiji Hindi Tarantino Kapampangan Northern Sotho Northern Sami Maori Shan Nahuatl Dutch Low Saxon Rusyn Khmer Bihari West Flemish Gan Crimean Tatar Tibetan Sardinian Vepsian Somali Gilaki Corsican Turkmen Võro Northern Luri Komi Erzya Kashubian 2,000+ Abkhazian Assamese Aymara Balinese Interlingue Manx Norman Saterland Frisian Udmurt Uyghur Zeelandic Lezgian Shona Cornish Ladino Picard Mirandese Konkani Romansh Guarani Komi-Permyak Ligurian Maltese Gorontalo Friulian Lower Sorbian Franco-Provençal Lingala Anglo-Saxon Divehi Chavacano Extremaduran Doteli Lao Kabyle Ripuarian Gagauz Lingua Franca Nova Hawaiian Livvi-Karelian Pangasinan Pali Avar Buryat Palatinate German Kalmyk Karachay-Balkar Banjar Hausa Santali 1,000+ Tulu Papiamentu Karakalpak Zhuang Pennsylvania German Kinyarwanda Tongan Novial Greenlandic Aramaic Jamaican Kabardian Tuvan Tok Pisin Tetum Kabiye Kikuyu Nauruan Igbo Bislama Aromanian Lak Lojban Tahitian Moksha Kongo Luganda Wolof Sranan Zulu 500+ Cherokee Latgalian Samoan Ingush Oromo Xhosa Norfolk Romani Old Church Slavonic Bambara Tswana Kirundi Cheyenne Twi Atikamekw Tumbuka Tsonga Sesotho Gothic Akan 200+ Chamorro Pontic Swati Fijian Adyghe Inuktitut Chichewa Ewe Kashmiri Inupiak Venda Sango Fula Dzongkha 100+ Tigrinya Cree 10+ Dinka 0+ Ndonga Choctaw Kuanyama Marshallese Hiri Motu Sichuan Yi Afar Muscogee Herero Kanuri Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Latin_Wikipedia&oldid=945745685" Categories: Latin encyclopedias Latin-language websites Wikipedias by language Internet properties established in 2006 Hidden categories: Pages using deprecated image syntax Articles containing Latin-language text Articles with Latin-language sources (la) Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans ??????? ??????? Asturianu Az?rbaycanca ????? Bân-lâm-gú ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)? ????????? Català ??????? ?eština Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Eesti Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français Galego ??? ??????? ?????? Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua Italiano ????? ??????? ??????? ???? ?????? Latina ?????????? ???? Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Occitan O?zbekcha/??????? Polski Português ??????? Sardu Simple English ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska Tagalog ????? ???????/tatarça ??? ?????? Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? ?? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 15 March 2020, at 21:53 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Leon@Frank.gov
