Libertarian perspectives on intellectual property - Wikipedia Libertarian perspectives on intellectual property From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article is written like a personal reflection, personal essay, or argumentative essay that states a Wikipedia editor's personal feelings or presents an original argument about a topic. Please help improve it by rewriting it in an encyclopedic style. (June 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article contains weasel words: vague phrasing that often accompanies biased or unverifiable information. Such statements should be clarified or removed. (August 2009) This article's lead section does not adequately summarize key points of its contents. Please consider expanding the lead to provide an accessible overview of all important aspects of the article. Please discuss this issue on the article's talk page. (August 2015) The examples and perspective in this section deal primarily with the United States and do not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this section, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new section, as appropriate. (February 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Part of a series on Libertarianism Origins Anarchism Libertarian communism Libertarian socialism Social anarchism Concepts Anti-authoritarianism Anti-capitalism Anti-militarism Anti-statism Civil disobedience Civil libertarianism Class struggle Communes Decentralization Decentralized planning Direct action Economic democracy Egalitarianism Expropriative anarchism Federalism Free association Free love Free market Free-market socialism Free migration Free society Freedom of association Global justice movement Gift economy Illegalism Individualism Individual reclamation Libertarian possibilism Liberty Non-voting Participatory economics Propaganda of the deed Property is theft Really Really Free Market Refusal of work Self-governance Self-ownership Social ecology Squatting Stateless society Workers' councils Workers' self-management People Adrews Armand Bakunin Berkman Bookchin Carson Cleyre Chomsky Déjacque Durruti Ferrer Magón Galleani Godwin Goldman Goodman Graeber Greene Hodgskin Kropotkin La Boétie Landauer Long Makhno Malatesta Michel Most Paterson Margall Proudhon Rocker Spooner Stirner Thoreau Tolstoy Tucker Voline Warren Related topics Criticism Left-libertarianism Right-libertarianism Libertarianism portal Anarchism portal v t e Libertarians have differing opinions on the validity of intellectual property. Contents 1 Political parties 2 Right-libertarian views 2.1 Ayn Rand's Views 3 Left-libertarian views 4 Other libertarian and anarchist views 5 References Political parties[edit] The Libertarian Party of Canada takes "a moderate approach to patents and copyrights", calling for "a careful review of existing and proposed legislation".[1] Right-libertarian views[edit] Anarcho-capitalists oppose the existence of even a minimal state. This ideological framework requires that any functions served by intellectual property law promulgation and enforcement be provided through private sector institutions. Murray Rothbard argues for allowing contractually arising infinite copyright terms and against the need for any government role in protecting intellectual property.[2] Rothbard states that government's involvement in defining arbitrary limits on the duration, scope and so on of intellectual property in order to "promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts" is inherently problematic, saying: "By what standard do you judge that research expenditures are 'too much,' 'too little,' or just about enough?". Thus, he argues that intellectual property laws can actually hinder innovation since competitors can be indefinitely discouraged from further research expenditures in the general area covered by the patent because the courts may hold their improvements as infringements on the previous patent and the patent holder is discouraged from engaging in further research in this field because the privilege discourages his improvement of his invention for the entire period of the patent, with the assurance that no competitor can trespass on his domain.[3] Morris and Linda Tannehill propose that ideas in the form of inventions could be registered in a privately owned "data bank". The inventor could then buy insurance against the theft and unauthorized commercial use of the invention and the insurance company would guarantee to not only compensate the inventor for any losses suffered due to such infringement but to stop such unauthorized use.[4] Opponents to intellectual property rights include Wendy McElroy,[5] Tom G. Palmer,[6] Henri Lepage, Boudewijn Bouckaert, Jeffrey Tucker and Stephan Kinsella.[7] Kinsella points out in Against Intellectual Property that patents may be inefficient since they divert resources from research and development to patent filing and lawsuits. He notices that theoretical research can not be patented as easily as practical research and thus theoretical research is relatively underfunded. Moreover, he argues that property rights can only apply to resources that are scarce, which intellectual property is not. Kinsella also claims that the only way that intellectual property rights can be implemented is by limiting others' physical property rights.[8] David D. Friedman takes a neutral stance on intellectual property, claiming "there are good arguments on both sides of that question".[9] Ayn Rand's Views[edit] Ayn Rand, founder of Objectivism, supported copyrights and patents, noting in Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal:[10] “ Patents and copyrights are the legal implementation of the base of all property rights: a man's right to the product of his mind. Every type of productive work involves a combination of mental and of physical effort: of thought and of physical action to translate that thought into a material form. The proportion of these two elements varies in different types of work. At the lowest end of the scale, the mental effort required to perform unskilled manual labor is minimal. At the other end, what the patent and copyright laws acknowledge is the paramount role of mental effort in the production of material values; these laws protect the mind's contribution in its purest form the origination of an idea. The subject of patents and copyrights is intellectual property. ... Thus the law establishes the property right of a mind to that which it has brought in existence. ” Rand held that patent should be granted for limited terms only: “ If it were held in perpetuity, it would lead to the opposite of the very principle on which it is based: it would lead, not to the earned reward of achievement, but to the unearned support of parasitism. It would become a cumulative lien on the production of unborn generations, which would ultimately paralyze them. Consider what would happen if, in producing an automobile, we had to pay royalties to the descendants of all the inventors involved, starting with the inventor of the wheel and on up. Apart from the impossibility of keeping such records, consider the accidental status of such descendants and the unreality of their unearned claims. ” Left-libertarian views[edit] Roderick T. Long argues that the concept of intellectual property is not libertarian. He holds that prohibiting people from using, reproducing and trading copyrighted material is an infringement of freedom of speech and freedom of the press and that since information exists in people's minds and other people's property one cannot own information without owning other people. Claiming that authors and publishers will continue to produce absent copyright protection, he cites the fact that hundreds of thousands of articles are uploaded onto the Internet by their authors every day, available to anyone in the world for free and that nearly all works written before the 20th century are in the public domain, yet pre-1900 works are still published and sold.[11] Benjamin Tucker, opposing intellectual property, writes that "the patent monopoly consists in protecting inventors against competition for a period long enough to extort from the people a reward enormously in excess of the labor measure of their services, – in other words, in giving certain people a right of property for a term of years in laws and facts of Nature, and the power to exact tribute from others for the use of this natural wealth, which should be open to all".[12] Other libertarian and anarchist views[edit] Anarchists such as Lysander Spooner and J. Neil Schulman have also argued for forms of intellectual property.[13] References[edit] ^ "Platform Of The Libertarian Party Of Canada". Archived from the original on January 11, 2014. Retrieved January 11, 2014. ^ Rothbard, Murray. "Chapter 3 – Triangular Intervention". Mises Institute. Retrieved June 21, 2009. ^ Rothbard, Murray. "Chapter 10 – Monopoly and Competition (continued)". Mises Institute. Retrieved June 21, 2009. ^ Tannehill, Morris; Tannehill, Linda (1993). "Property – The Great Problem Solver". The Market for Liberty. San Francisco: Fox & Wilkes. pp. 58–59. ISBN 0-930073-08-8. ^ McElroy, Wendy (2011). "Contra Copyright, Again" (PDF). Libertarian Papers. 3 (12). ^ Palmer, Tom G. (1990). "Are Patents and Copyrights Morally Justified? The Philosophy of Property Rights and Ideal Objects" (PDF). Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy. 13 (3). ^ Bouillon, Hardy (2009). "A Note on Intellectual Property and Externalities". In Hülsmann, Jörg Guido; Kinsella, Stephan (eds.). Property, Freedom, and Society: Essays in Honor of Hans-Hermann Hoppe. Mises Institute. p. 157. ISBN 978-1-933550-52-7. ^ Kinsella, Stephan (2008). Against Intellectual Property (PDF). Mises Institute. ISBN 978-1-933550-32-9. Archived from the original (PDF) on December 16, 2014. Retrieved May 3, 2014. ^ Wile, Anthony. "David D. Friedman on his Famous Father, Anarcho-Capitalism and Free-Market Solutions". The Daily Bell. April 8, 2012. Retrieved February 21, 2019. ^ Rand, Ayn (1966). Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal. ^ Long, Roderik T. (September 14, 2002). "The Libertarian Case Against Intellectual Property Rights". Libertariannation. Archived from the original on September 14, 2002. Retrieved June 21, 2009. ^ Tucker, Benjamin (1893). Instead of a Book, By a Man Too Busy to Write One: A Fragmentary Exposition of Philosophical Anarchism. New York. p. 13. ^ In "Classical Liberals and Anarchists on Intellectual Property", Stephan Kinsella lists other classical liberals and anarchists and their positions on intellectual property. In "Pro-IP "Anarchists" and anti-IP Patent Attorneys", Kinsella lists some more recent anarchist libertarians in favor of intellectual property. For further discussion of the views of various libertarians on this matter, see his "Anti-IP Resources", "The Four Historical Phases of IP Abolitionism" and "The Origins of Libertarian IP Abolitionism". v t e Intellectual property activism Issues Artificial scarcity Copyright infringement Copyright troll Digital rights management Gripe site Legal aspects of file sharing Mashup digital music videos Monopolies of knowledge Music piracy Orphan works Patents biological software software patent debate trolling Public domain Concepts All rights reversed Alternative compensation system Anti-copyright notice Business models for open-source software Copyleft Commercial use of copyleft works Commons-based peer production Electronic sell-through Free content Free software license Libertarian positions Open content Open-design movement Open Music Model Open patent Open-source Open-source hardware Open-source software Prize system contests Share-alike Video on demand Movements Access to Knowledge movement Anti-copyright Cultural environmentalism Free-culture movement Free software movement Organizations Pro-copyright Copyright Alliance Pro-copyleft Creative Commons Electronic Frontier Foundation Free Software Foundation Open Rights Group Organization for Transformative Works The Pirate Bay Piratbyrån Pirate Party Public Knowledge Sci-Hub Students for Free Culture People Cory Doctorow Alexandra Elbakyan Rick Falkvinge Lawrence Lessig Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Documentaries Steal This Film (2006, 2007) Good Copy Bad Copy (2007) RiP!: A Remix Manifesto (2008) TPB AFK: The Pirate Bay Away From Keyboard (2013) The Internet's Own Boy (2014) Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Libertarian_perspectives_on_intellectual_property&oldid=942861334" Categories: Intellectual property law Controversies within libertarianism Intellectual property activism Economics of intellectual property Hidden categories: Wikipedia articles with style issues from June 2013 All articles with style issues Articles with weasel words from August 2009 Wikipedia introduction cleanup from August 2015 All pages needing cleanup Articles covered by WikiProject Wikify from August 2015 All articles covered by WikiProject Wikify Articles with limited geographic scope from February 2019 USA-centric Articles with multiple maintenance issues Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Español Esperanto Português Edit links This page was last edited on 27 February 2020, at 09:12 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
George@Henry.info
