Library of Congress Control Number - Wikipedia Library of Congress Control Number From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Numbering system for catalog records at the Library of Congress For information on using this system on Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Authority control § LCCN. The Library of Congress Control Number (LCCN) is a serially-based system of numbering cataloging records in the Library of Congress in the United States. It has nothing to do with the contents of any book, and should not be confused with Library of Congress Classification. Contents 1 History 2 Format 3 See also 4 References 5 External links History[edit] The LCCN numbering system has been in use since 1898, at which time the acronym LCCN originally stood for Library of Congress Card Number. It has also been called the Library of Congress Catalog Card Number, among other names. The Library of Congress prepared cards of bibliographic information for their library catalog and would sell duplicate sets of the cards to other libraries for use in their catalogs. This is known as centralized cataloging. Each set of cards was given a serial number to help identify it. Although most of the bibliographic information is now electronically created, stored, and shared with other libraries, there is still a need to identify each unique record, and the LCCN continues to perform that function. Librarians all over the world use this unique identifier in the process of cataloging most books which have been published in the United States. It helps them reach the correct cataloging data (known as a cataloging record), which the Library of Congress and third parties make available on the Web and through other media. In February 2008, the Library of Congress created the LCCN Permalink service, providing a stable URL for all Library of Congress Control Numbers.[1] Format[edit] In its most elementary form the number includes a year and a serial number. The year has two digits for 1898 to 2000, and four digits beginning in 2001. The three ambiguous years (1898, 1899, and 1900) are distinguished by the size of the serial number. There are also some peculiarities in numbers beginning with a "7" because of an experiment applied between 1969 and 1972 which added a check digit.[2] Serial numbers are six digits long and should include leading zeros. The leading zeros padding the number are a more recent addition to the format, so many older works will show less-full codes. The hyphen that is often seen separating the year and serial number is optional. More recently, the Library of Congress has instructed publishers not to include a hyphen. See also[edit] Library of Congress Subject Headings (LCSH) Authority control Virtual International Authority File (VIAF) CODEN Integrated Authority File (GND; Gemeinsame Normdatei) International Standard Book Number (ISBN) Books in the United States References[edit] ^ "Library of Congress Update for 2008 ALA Annual Conference: January-May, 2008". Archived from the original on 2017-08-28. ^ "Structure of the LC Control Number". External links[edit] Wikidata has the properties: Library of Congress Control Number (LCCN) (bibliographic) (P1144) (see uses) Library of Congress authority ID (P244) (see uses) Library of Congress Name Authority File (NAF) Traditional and normalized forms of the LCCN LCCN Permalink Frequently Asked Questions Bibliographic Processing Cataloging Rules: Library of Congress Control Number (LCCN) at the Wayback Machine (archived 2016-05-13) v t e Authority control files AAG • ACM DL • ADB • AGSA • autores.uy • AWR • BALaT • BIBSYS • Bildindex • BNC • BNE • BNF • Botanist • BPN • CANTIC • CiNii • DAAO • DBLP • DSI • FNZA • GND • HDS • World Athletics • ICIA • ISNI • Joconde • KulturNav • LCCN • LIR • LNB • Léonore • MusicBrainz • MGP • NARA • NCL • NDL • NGV • NKC • NLA • NLG • NLI • NLK • NLP • NLR • NSK • NTA • ORCID • PIC • ResearcherID • RERO • RKD • RKDimages ID • RSL • ICCU • SELIBR • SIKART • SNAC • SUDOC • S2AuthorId • TA98 • TDV?A • TE • TePapa • TH • TLS • Trove • ULAN • US Congress • VIAF • WorldCat Identities Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Library_of_Congress_Control_Number&oldid=932653422" Categories: Library cataloging and classification Library of Congress Identifiers Hidden categories: Articles with short description Webarchive template wayback links Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans ??????? Asturianu Bân-lâm-gú ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)? ??????? ????????? Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français Gàidhlig Galego ??? ?????? Ilokano Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Jawa ?????????? ?????? Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Nordfriisk Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Român? ??????? Scots ????? Simple English Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska ??? Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 27 December 2019, at 11:24 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Garfield@Jesse.info
