List of films about Wikipedia - Wikipedia List of films about Wikipedia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Wikipedia list article The following is a list of films about Wikipedia. Films[edit] The Truth According to Wikipedia (also referred to as Wiki's Waarheid and Wiki's Truth) is a 2008 Dutch documentary film about Wikipedia directed by IJsbrand van Veelen which was originally shown on VPRO Backlight. The documentary examines the reliability of Wikipedia, and the dichotomy between usage of experts versus amateur editors. The film includes commentary from Wikipedia co-founders Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger, The Cult of the Amateur author Andrew Keen, O'Reilly Media chief executive officer Tim O'Reilly, and former editor-in-chief of Encyclopædia Britannica Robert McHenry. Keen argues that experts should serve as guardians of information during the Web 2.0 phenomenon; this point of view is supported by analysis from Sanger. The film was released both as a Dutch language and an English language edition (with subtitles for interviews in other languages). Truth in Numbers? is a 2010 American documentary film which explores the history and cultural implications of the online user-editable encyclopedia Wikipedia. The film attempts to answer the question of whether all kinds of individuals or just experts should be tasked with editing an encyclopedia. A history and background of the website is given, as well as commentary from Wikipedia founders Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger. Commentators that appear in the film include author Howard Zinn, Len Downie of The Washington Post, Bob Schieffer of CBS News, former Encyclopædia Britannica chief Robert McHenry, and former Central Intelligence Agency director James Woolsey. The documentary discusses incidents which shed a negative light on Wikipedia, including the Essjay controversy and the Wikipedia biography controversy. People are Knowledge is a film made during the course of a research project that explored how alternate methods of citation could be employed on Wikipedia. The film documents a series of specific situations with regards to published knowledge, and, subsequently, with oral citations. It was made by Priya Sen, Zen Marie and Achal Prabhala. See also[edit] Bibliography of Wikipedia External links[edit] People are Knowledge at Wikimedia Commons v t e Wikipedia Overview (Outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing Criticism gender bias ideological bias racial bias Deletionism and inclusionism MediaWiki Notability Reliability Vandalism Predictions of the project's end Community Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Citation needed Edit-a-thon "Ignore all rules" policy List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikipedian in residence WikiConference North America Wikimania WikiProject Women in Red People Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Erik Möller Ira Brad Matetsky Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales Wikipedians Wikimedian of the Year History Bomis Logo Controversies U.S. Congressional staff edits Essjay controversy Seigenthaler biography incident Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Italian Wikipedia blackout English Wikipedia blackout Hillsborough Wikipedia posts MyWikiBiz Lsjbot VisualEditor Art+Feminism #1Lib1Ref Honors 2008 Quadriga award Wikipedia Monument 2015 Erasmus Prize 2015 Princess of Asturias Award References and analysis Cultural Bibliography Films Academic studies Listen to Wikipedia Wiki-Watch Wikipediocracy WikiScanner Wikipedia Review Mobile access Apps QRpedia Wapedia WikiNodes Wikipedia Zero Wikiwand Content use Books LLC Boundless (company) DBpedia Deletionpedia Kiwix WikiReader Science information Health information Similar projects Interpedia Nupedia Citizendium Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Everipedia Veropedia List of online encyclopedias List of wikis Related Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs Print Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) 274301 Wikipedia Viola wikipedia List Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=List_of_films_about_Wikipedia&oldid=945360510" Categories: Lists of films by topic Films about Wikipedia Lists about Wikipedia Hidden categories: Articles with short description Articles containing Spanish-language text Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ????? Español Français Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Nederlands Simple English ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 13 March 2020, at 13:27 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
George@Garfield.in
