List of wiki software - Wikipedia List of wiki software From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Wikipedia list article This is a list of notable wiki software applications. For a comparative table of such software, see Comparison of wiki software. For a list of wikis, or websites using wiki software, see List of wikis. Contents 1 Standard wiki programs, by programming language 1.1 JavaScript-based 1.2 Java-based 1.3 Perl-based 1.4 PHP-based 1.5 Python-based 1.6 Ruby-based 1.7 Other languages 2 Personal wiki software 3 Hosted-only software 4 Content management and social software with wiki functionality 4.1 Java-based 4.2 Perl-based 4.3 PHP-based 4.4 Other languages 5 Project management software with wiki functionality 6 See also 7 References Standard wiki programs, by programming language[edit] JavaScript-based[edit] Lively Wiki is based on Lively Kernel and combines features of wikis and development environments. Users can create and edit application behavior and other content. TiddlyWiki is a HTML-JavaScript-based server-less wiki in which the entire site/wiki is contained in a single file. Wiki.js is an open-source, Node.js-based wiki application using git as the back end storage mechanism and automatically syncs with any git repository. It provides a visual Markdown editor with assets management, authentication system and a built-in search engine. Java-based[edit] XWiki is an open-source wiki engine with a complete wiki feature set (version control, attachments, etc.) and a database engine and programming language which allows database driven applications to be created using the wiki interface. Zoho Wiki is an easy-to-use knowledge management tool for teams. Perl-based[edit] Foswiki is a structured wiki, which enables users to create "wiki applications". ikiwiki, a "wiki compiler" - can use Subversion or git as the back end storage mechanism. TWiki is a structured wiki, typically used to run a project development space, a document management system, a knowledge base, or any other groupware tool. Also available as a VMware appliance. UseModWiki (created by Clifford Adams in 2000) is a clone of AtisWiki. WikiWikiWeb, the first wiki and its associated software. PHP-based[edit] DokuWiki is aimed at the documentation needs of a small company. It uses plain text files and has a simple but powerful syntax which ensures the datafiles remain readable outside the wiki. MediaWiki is used for projects run by the Wikimedia Foundation, which operates Wikipedia. It is also publicly available for use in other wikis, and has widespread popularity among smaller, non-Wikimedia wikis. Semantic MediaWiki lets you store and query data within the wiki's pages like a database. It is also designed to ease and combine collaborative authoring within a wiki with semantic technology. BlueSpice MediaWiki extends MediaWiki in usability, quality management, process support, administration, editing and security. MindTouch is an open-source application that began as a fork of MediaWiki; it has a C# back-end and a PHP front-end. PhpWiki is a WikiWikiWeb clone in PHP. PmWiki is a PHP-based wiki. Features include: GPL-licensed, easy installation/customization, designed for collaborative authoring and maintenance of web sites, and support for internationalization. Does not require a database. UserPress is a PHP/WordPress-based wiki platform. Features include: easy setup, tight integration with WordPress, wiki page previews (via modal window), edit tracking, and page tree re-ordering widget. BookStack is a simple, self-hosted, easy-to-use Wiki for organising and storing information. Python-based[edit] LocalWiki is a wiki engine based on Django, built for city wikis with mapping features and a WYSIWYG editor. MoinMoin is a wiki engine written in Python. Zwiki is a Zope-based GPL wiki engine. It can integrate with the content management framework Plone, and supports several kinds of markup and WYSIWYG HTML editing. Trac is an enhanced wiki and issue tracking system for software development projects. Ruby-based[edit] Gollum is a wiki using git as the back end storage mechanism, and written mostly in Ruby. It is the wiki system used by the GitHub web hosting system. Wagn is a Ruby on Rails application that can be used as a simple wiki, a database, a content management system, or a development platform. Other languages[edit] Cliki is written in Common Lisp. FlexWiki was written in C#, uses the .NET Framework, and stores data in files or Microsoft SQL Server. The development stopped in 2009. Gitit is a Happstack-based wiki server employing git or Darcs to manage wiki history, and the Pandoc document conversion system to manage markup - among other things permitting the inclusion of LaTeX mathematical markup. Swiki is written in Squeak. It runs on common platforms, including Mac, Windows, Linux, and others. Wiki Server is proprietary software distributed with Mac OS X Server. Personal wiki software[edit] Further information: Personal wiki ConnectedText is a commercial Windows-based personal wiki system with features including full text searches, visual link tree, customizable interface, image and file control, CSS-based page display, exports to HTML and HTML Help, and plug-ins. Journler is a free, open-source personal information manager with personal wiki features for OS X. TiddlyWiki is a free, open-source personal use (single-machine) wiki based on HTML/JavaScript for any browser and OS. It supports customization and a wide range of addons. WhizFolders is a commercial Windows-based personal wiki software with rich text wiki items that support inserting links to other wiki items or external files. WikidPad is a free, open-source personal use (single-machine) wiki with native support of international characters (Unicode). Zim is a free, open-source standalone wiki based on Python and GTK with a WYSIWYG editor. Hosted-only software[edit] Further information: Wiki hosting service Knowledge Plaza is a knowledge management tool that provides both wiki environments for collaborative topic/project work and an enterprise bookmarking tool. Nuclino is a real-time wiki for team collaboration. Wikidot is a social networking service and wiki hosting service suitable for both public and private wikis. Content management and social software with wiki functionality[edit] Further information: Content management system and Enterprise social software Java-based[edit] ConcourseConnect is a freely available J2EE application made by Concursive which brings together Corporate Social Networking, Online Community, Business directory, and Customer relationship management capabilities. Features include wiki, blog, document management, ratings, reviews, online classified advertising, and project management modules. The wiki allows both wiki markup and WYSIWYG editing. Confluence is a commercial J2EE application which combines wiki and some blog functionality. Its features include PDF page export and page refactoring, and it can be run on any application server using any RDBMS backend. IBM Connections is an Enterprise Social Software made by IBM which combines Wikis, Blogs, Files, Forums, Microblogging, Social Analytics, and Document Management. Jive (formerly known as Clearspace, Jive SBS and Jive Engage) is a commercial J2EE application, made by Jive Software, which combines wiki, blog and document management functionality. Jive uses WYSIWYG editing, and includes workflow management. Liferay is an open source enterprise portal project with a built-in web content management and web application framework. Core portlets offer a great number of functionalities, including Wiki (both Creole and MediaWiki syntax). Mindquarry creates a WYSIWYG wiki for each team. It is built using Apache Cocoon and thus based on Java (Mozilla Public License) Traction TeamPage is a commercial enterprise wiki also incorporating blog, project management, document management, discussion and tagging capabilities. The wiki has a draft moderation capability allowing administrators to indicate who can read published vs. draft versions, and who can publish vs. author and edit. The dynamic view architecture allows for easy organization of pages and to collect any set of pages for view, email or export. It is based on the principles of Douglas Engelbart's On-Line System (NLS) which aggregates multiple blog/wiki spaces using a sophisticated permission and inline comment model. XWiki includes the standard wiki functionality as well as WYSIWYG editing, OpenDocument based document import/export, semantic annotations and tagging, and advanced permissions management. Perl-based[edit] Socialtext is an enterprise wiki and weblog engine partially derived from open-source Kwiki. Socialtext is available as a hosted service, or a dedicated hardware appliance. PHP-based[edit] Drupal installations can be configured as wikis with MediaWiki-style wiki markup. Tiki Wiki CMS Groupware is one of the larger and more ambitious wiki development projects, including a variety of additional groupware features (message forums, articles, etc.). Other languages[edit] Microsoft SharePoint has built-in wiki support. It is built on ASP.Net, C# and Microsoft SQL Server. Telligent is a social platform, based entirely on Microsoft .NET and SQL Server, that includes wiki functionality. Project management software with wiki functionality[edit] Further information: Project management software Altova MetaTeam integrates a wiki and glossary with project management, collaborative decision-making and team performance management Code Co-op is a distributed revision control system with wiki functionality. Fossil is a distributed revision control system that integrates a distributed wiki capability, written in C. Redmine is a project management web application. Trac integrates simple issue tracking and an interface to Subversion. See also[edit] Comparison of wiki software History of wikis Personal wiki References[edit] v t e Wikis Types Personal Medical Semantic Wiki farm Components Software Interwiki links Lists Wikis Software Comparisons Software Wiki farms See also History Creole Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=List_of_wiki_software&oldid=945038451" Categories: Lists of software Wiki software Hidden categories: Articles with short description Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Boarisch ?eština Deutsch ????? Français ??? Italiano Português Edit links This page was last edited on 11 March 2020, at 13:04 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
