List of Wikipedia mobile applications - Wikipedia List of Wikipedia mobile applications From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Wikimedia's official apps for Wikipedia Wikipedia Developer(s) Wikimedia Foundation Repository github.com/wikimedia Written in Various Website github.com/wikimedia A number of organizations within the Wikimedia movement including the Wikimedia Foundation publish official mobile apps for using Wikipedia on mobile device operating systems. All are available for free via the appropriate app store (e.g. Google Play, App Store, Windows Store). They can also be downloaded independently of any third party store, from the Wikimedia Foundation's releases website, which also keeps old and beta versions.[1] Independent developers have also released many unofficial apps for reading Wikipedia articles. Some apps load content from the Wikipedia site and process it; other apps use the MediaWiki API. Some only display Wikipedia content, usually omitting some features such as categories and talk pages. Some allow editing. Contents 1 Official apps 1.1 Wikimedia Foundation 1.2 Wikimedia Switzerland 2 Unassociated apps 3 Related apps 4 References 5 External links Official apps Wikimedia Foundation Wikipedia apps from the Wikimedia Foundation are called "Wikipedia", except for the iOS version which is called "Wikipedia Mobile". Android The Android app allows editing articles directly from the app. It has limited capability to show categories and talk pages. It is also available on F-Droid.[2] iOS The iOS app also provides a read and write version of Wikipedia,[3] similar to the mobile web version. It allows users to share an article via Facebook and other social websites. It also allows users to find geotagged articles near their current location. It does not allow to see categories or talk pages, nor to see the normal desktop version. Windows The Metro-style app provides a read-only version of Wikipedia, similar to the mobile web version. The app when used in Windows RT is incapable of showing moving pictures. Wikimedia Switzerland Wikimedia CH, the Swiss chapter of the Wikimedia movement, has developed a number of offline apps based on Wikipedia content. Title Description Android iOS Windows Other OS Languages of content files by Kiwix Website Price Open source Kiwix Free program to download a whole Wikimedia project and read offline. yes yes Windows 10 UWP; Older Windows (x86) GNU/Linux, F-Droid Firefox Add-on, Chrome Extension, S60 3rd edition, feature pack 1 or later can show ZIM files via WikiOnBoard 286 (wikipedia, wikivoyage, wiktionary, wikiversity, wikibooks, wikisource, wikiquote, wikinews, wikispecies) Website Free Yes Medical Wikipedia (Offline) Wikipedia's Offline Medical Encyclopedia. Based on Kiwix and developed in collaboration with Wiki Project Med Foundation. AR, DE, EN, ES, FA, FR, JA, OR, PT, ZH EN WikiMed UWP EN; Kiwix JS + in-app download of any WikiMed language only as content file (ZIM) in Kiwix or WikiOnBoard AR, AS, BN, BPY, DE, EN, ES, FA, FR, GU, HI, IT, JA, KN, LO, ML, MR, OR, PA, PT, TA, TE, UR, ZH Website Free Yes Wikivoyage Wikivoyage's Offline. Based on Kiwix and providing a world mobile offline travel guide. A version for Europe exists too. EN DE Wikivoyage UWP EN; Kiwix JS + in-app download of any Wikivoyage language only as content file (ZIM) in Kiwix or WikiOnBoard DE, EL, EN, ES, FA, FI, FR, HE, IT, NL, PL, PT, RO, RU, SV, UK, VI, ZH Website Free Yes Unassociated apps This list is incomplete; you can help by expanding it. These apps were mainly developed to display articles and are often used on platforms for which an official Wikipedia app was not formerly available, such as Windows Phone. Typical features include searching for articles, bookmarks, sharing, or enlarging images. Title Description Android iOS Windows 10 / Windows Phone Website / Other OS Price (in US$) Open source Aard 2 A free offline dictionary reader for Android and Desktop/Web.[4] yes Website Free Yes Articles By Sophiestication Software. — Wikipedia reader for iPad, iPad mini, iPhone and iPod touch.[5] yes Website Free Bing Wikipedia Browser Bing Wikipedia Browser by Microsoft combines the content from Wikipedia with enhanced search, browse, and content recommendations based on the Bing Knowledge repository. yes Website Free Clickipedia A game about getting from a random article to a specific destination article with as few clicks and as quickly as possible. yes Free Diderot Nearest unphotographed Wikipedia articles; for Pebble Watch. Pebble Free Yes EdgeWiki A web app of wikipedia.org with a screen reader. Works on Windows 10, Windows 10 Mobile, and the Surface Hub. yes $0.99 GeoSearch for Wikipedia By Yunhe Shi — Search and view geotagged Wikipedia articles from an visible map region. yes Website Free Inquire by Tamper A context-aware Wikipedia reader that brings you the most interesting and relevant articles based on your location. yes (& Apple Watch) Website $0.99 Know Everything Search by voice; for Pebble Watch. Pebble Free Yes LearnDiscovery By XDiscovery. — Displays and saves mindmaps of Wikipedia. Correlations between topics are organized to make sense of new information by visualizing the context about a topic. Bookmarks mindmaps instead of articles, and shares them as visual references. yes Website $5.99 Learni Learn something new and interesting from wikipedia yes yes Website Free LoboWiki Reader for Wikipedia All the links clicked are added to the reading queue, instead of being immediately opened to allow users to read articles in a distraction-free manner. yes Website Free Minipedia Offline Wikipedia By Minipedia. — Access Wikipedia articles using iPod, iPhone or iPad without a network connection. yes yes Website Free MiniWiki Browse Wikipedia on an Apple Watch, see articles for nearby locations, and download articles for offline reading. yes Free Mnemo's Library An app that allows users to create, share, and review Wikipedia information and associated mnemonics/memory aids. yes yes yes Website Free Yes motî Offline & multi-lingual dictionary app for language learners, taking data from the English Wiktionary. yes Website Free onePedia A Wikipedia client which allows the viewing and editing of articles on Windows 10, Windows 10 Mobile, and the Surface Hub. yes Free Quiz King A quiz app for playing quiz battles ! Challenge your friends and other WOKers in trivia build on questions from Wikipedia articles. yes yes Website Free V for Wikipedia By Raureif GmbH. — Wikipedia app for iPhone, iPad, and Apple Watch. yes Website $4.99 WikiBOT Continuous learning chatbot capable to provide answers to a wide range of questions as world capitals, real time weather info and more. Website Free WikiCompass WikiCompass gets nearby Wikipedia articles and lets you view them in augmented reality. yes Website $0.99 Wiki Encyclopedia Gold By AppsUnlimited wiki. — A Wikipedia reader. Pro version costs $0.99 and claims to donate 30% of revenue to Wikimedia foundation. yes Free WikiFlip An app that turns Wikipedia images into a quiz game. Flip a picture and take a trivia quiz question from World of Knowledge, the ecosystem of multiple choice questions. yes yes Website Free Wiki here Shows nearby places from Wikipedia coordinate data on Windows 10, Windows 10 Mobile, and the Surface Hub. yes Free WikiLens By Arash Pessian. — An augmented reality app that instantly links things around you to their Wikipedia article. yes Website Free WikiMaster A game app that has over 330000 multiple choice questions on top of Wikipedia articles. yes yes Website Free Wikini for Wikipedia A Wikipedia viewer with a reading list for Windows 10 and Windows 10 Mobile. yes Free WikiNodes By Institute for Dynamic Educational Advancement (IDEA).[6][7][8] yes $1.99 Wikio for Wikipedia A Wikipedia viewer built for Windows 10. Works on Windows 10, Windows 10 Mobile, and the Surface Hub. yes Free Wikipanion By Robert Chin — Easy, search, navigation and display of Wikipedia entries. Streamline your browsing with history grouped by visit date, and bookmarking for individual entries and sections within an entry. yes Website Free Wikipedia Nearby Articles near current location; for Pebble Watch. Pebble Free Yes Wikipedia Reader By ManoRey — Wikipedia Reader is a Wikipedia article and image reader for Windows 10 Mobile, Windows Phone 8.1, Windows Phone 8. yes Free Wikipedia Viewer A web app of m.wikipedia.org. Works on Windows 10, Windows 10 Mobile, HoloLens, and the Surface Hub. yes $0.99 Wikipebble Search by voice or keyboard; for Pebble Watch. Pebble Free Wikiwand Made to allow easier navigation and search than the website or the site's own app.[9][10][11] Currently invitation only[12] yes Website Free Wikiweb Wikiweb is a Wikipedia reader for iPhone and iPad that visualizes the connections between articles.[13][14] yes Website $4.99 Zimpedia Offline reader for Wikipedia and other Wiki projects stored in a ZIM format. Sailfish OS BlackBerry 10 Free Yes Related apps A number of apps for Wikipedia's sister projects exist. These include the Wiki Loves Monuments app, written for a 2012 photo contest, as an aid for Wikiphotographers. It shows a map of nearby national heritage register items, indicating whether Wikipedia had a photo for the site, and enabling quick and easy photo uploads for camera phones. It is not integrated with the official article display app.[15] There is an Android app for Wikimedia Commons[16] which is community maintained. There is also an Android app for Wiktionary, although it is no longer supported and has not been updated since August 2013.[17] References ^ "Index of /mobile". releases.wikimedia.org. Retrieved 2017-06-16. ^ package in F-Droid ^ "iPhone App of the Week: Wikipedia Mobile". Smartcompany.com.au. 2011-06-17. Retrieved 2012-07-08. ^ "Desktop — Aard Dictionary". Aarddict.org. 2012-02-26. Retrieved 2012-07-08. ^ Mike Schramm (2010-06-09). "Apple Design Awards go to popular iPhone and iPad apps". TUAW. Retrieved 2012-08-12. ^ "WikiNodes Brings A New Perspective To Knowledge » 148Apps » iPhone and iPod Touch Application Reviews and News". 148Apps. 2011-05-10. Retrieved 2012-07-08. ^ "WikiNodes for iPad – Making Wikipedia Fun to Explore — iPad Insight". Ipadinsight.com. 2011-05-12. Archived from the original on 2012-10-13. Retrieved 2012-07-08. ^ "WikiNodes for iPad". iPad App Finders. 2011-05-23. Retrieved 2012-07-08. ^ Bell, Karissa (8 March 2015). "5 can't-miss apps: 'Zenith Space Adventure,' StubHub Music and more". Retrieved 20 June 2015. ^ Sawers, Paul (19 August 2014). "WikiWand makes Wikipedia beautiful". The Next Web. ^ Sawers, Paul (5 March 2015). "Wikiwand arrives on iPhone to help make Wikipedia beautiful". VentureBeat. Retrieved 20 June 2015. ^ "The Best Tools to Improve Your Wikipedia Experience". PCMAG. Retrieved 26 February 2017. ^ Sawers, Paul (14 July 2012). "Wikiweb: A beautiful iOS Wikipedia app that lets you visualize connections between articles". The Next Web. Retrieved 20 June 2015. ^ Rubio, Justin (18 July 2012). "Wikiweb app makes wasting time on Wikipedia even easier". The Verge. Retrieved 20 June 2015. ^ Google Play Wiki Loves Monuments, Wikimedia Foundation ^ "Upload To Commons - Android Apps on Google Play". Play.google.com. Retrieved 2016-03-03. ^ "Wiktionary - Android Apps on Google Play". Play.google.com. Retrieved 2017-07-15. External links Wikimedia Commons has media related to Wikipedia App. MediaWiki has documentation related to: List of Wikipedia mobile applications On Wikipedia help pages and Wikimedia Foundation websites Help:Mobile access - App information, resources and developer/source code support for the official app, on Wikipedia's help pages Wikimedia mobile engineering - team page for the Wikimedia Mobile Engineering Department, on the Wikimedia Foundation's MediaWiki development website Unsupported official builds of Wikimedia apps On third party websites Wikipedia's Mobile Support and Development mirrored at GitHub v t e Wikipedia Overview (Outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing Criticism gender bias ideological bias racial bias Deletionism and inclusionism MediaWiki Notability Reliability Vandalism Predictions of the project's end Community Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Citation needed Edit-a-thon "Ignore all rules" policy List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikipedian in residence WikiConference North America Wikimania WikiProject Women in Red People Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Erik Möller Ira Brad Matetsky Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales Wikipedians Wikimedian of the Year History Bomis Logo Controversies U.S. Congressional staff edits Essjay controversy Seigenthaler biography incident Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Italian Wikipedia blackout English Wikipedia blackout Hillsborough Wikipedia posts MyWikiBiz Lsjbot VisualEditor Art+Feminism #1Lib1Ref Honors 2008 Quadriga award Wikipedia Monument 2015 Erasmus Prize 2015 Princess of Asturias Award References and analysis Cultural Bibliography Films Academic studies Listen to Wikipedia Wiki-Watch Wikipediocracy WikiScanner Wikipedia Review Mobile access Apps QRpedia Wapedia WikiNodes Wikipedia Zero Wikiwand Content use Books LLC Boundless (company) DBpedia Deletionpedia Kiwix WikiReader Science information Health information Similar projects Interpedia Nupedia Citizendium Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Everipedia Veropedia List of online encyclopedias List of wikis Related Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs Print Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) 274301 Wikipedia Viola wikipedia List Category Internet portal Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=List_of_Wikipedia_mobile_applications&oldid=945957449" Categories: Firefox OS software Free and open-source Android software IOS software Lists about Wikipedia Mobile software distribution platforms Universal Windows Platform apps Windows Phone Lists of mobile apps Hidden categories: Wikipedia pages semi-protected against vandalism Articles with short description Incomplete lists from December 2016 Commons category link from Wikidata Articles containing Spanish-language text Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? ????? ?????????? ?eština Español ??? ??????? Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu ??? ??????? Türkçe ?????????? ???? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 17 March 2020, at 04:42 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
