Listen to Wikipedia - Wikipedia Listen to Wikipedia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Listen to Wikipedia Repository github.com/hatnote/listen-to-wikipedia License 3-clause BSD license Website listen.hatnote.com Listen to Wikipedia, also known as L2W or Hatnote: Listen To Wikipedia, is a multimedia visualizer developed by Mahmoud Hashemi and Stephen LaPorte, which translates recent Wikipedia edits into a display of visuals and sounds. The open source software application creates a real-time statistical graphic with sound from contributions to Wikipedia from around the world. To accomplish this, L2W uses the graphics library D3.js.[1] The concept of Listen to Wikipedia is based on BitListen, originally known as Listen to Bitcoin, an application by Maximillian Laumeister.[2][3] Contents 1 Presentation 1.1 Audio 1.2 Visuals 2 References 3 External links Presentation[edit] Listen to Wikipedia exhibited at the University of Virginia Audio[edit] Each edit produces an orchestral sound in the pentatonic scale.[4] The bell-like sounds of a celesta correspond to additions of content to Wikipedia, and the strings of a clavichord show subtractions. The pitch is inversely proportional to the size of the edit (higher pitch notes are produced by smaller edits).[5] Newly registered Wikipedia users are welcomed by a violin chord.[6] Visuals[edit] Each edit creates a circle of one of three colors: white for registered users, green for non-registered users, and violet for bots. The size of a circle is proportional to the size of the edit (larger circles are produced by larger edits).[3] Clicking on the display text will open a new page in the user's browser showing the revision. References[edit] ^ Listen to Wikipedia, blog.hatnote.com, Retrieved 27 August 2013. ^ "Listen to Wikipedia – Wikimedia blog". Retrieved 2016-06-23. ^ a b Hashemi, Stephen LaPorte and Mahmoud. "Hatnote Listen to Wikipedia". listen.hatnote.com. Retrieved 2016-06-23. ^ Wilson, Mark (August 23, 2013). "Listen To The Orchestra Of Users Updating Wikipedia". Fast Company. Retrieved December 23, 2019. ^ "Listen To Wikipedia: Engineers Translate Edits Into Sound". NPR. Retrieved 2016-06-15. ^ Seifert, Dan (August 9, 2013). "Fall asleep to the sound of Wikipedia". The Verge. Retrieved December 23, 2019. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Listen to Wikipedia. internet portal Official website Stephen LaPorte, Mahmoud Hashemi, Listen to Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation blog, 30 July 2013 v t e Wikipedia Overview (Outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing Criticism gender bias ideological bias racial bias Deletionism and inclusionism MediaWiki Notability Reliability Vandalism Predictions of the project's end Community Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Citation needed Edit-a-thon "Ignore all rules" policy List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikipedian in residence WikiConference North America Wikimania WikiProject Women in Red People Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Erik Möller Ira Brad Matetsky Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales Wikipedians Wikimedian of the Year History Bomis Logo Controversies U.S. Congressional staff edits Essjay controversy Seigenthaler biography incident Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Italian Wikipedia blackout English Wikipedia blackout Hillsborough Wikipedia posts MyWikiBiz Lsjbot VisualEditor Art+Feminism #1Lib1Ref Honors 2008 Quadriga award Wikipedia Monument 2015 Erasmus Prize 2015 Princess of Asturias Award References and analysis Cultural Bibliography Films Academic studies Listen to Wikipedia Wiki-Watch Wikipediocracy WikiScanner Wikipedia Review Mobile access Apps QRpedia Wapedia WikiNodes Wikipedia Zero Wikiwand Content use Books LLC Boundless (company) DBpedia Deletionpedia Kiwix WikiReader Science information Health information Similar projects Interpedia Nupedia Citizendium Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Everipedia Veropedia List of online encyclopedias List of wikis Related Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs Print Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) 274301 Wikipedia Viola wikipedia List Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Listen_to_Wikipedia&oldid=934259040" Categories: Wikipedia Data visualization software Software using the BSD license Hidden categories: Commons category link from Wikidata Articles containing Spanish-language text Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Add links This page was last edited on 5 January 2020, at 15:57 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Thomas@Charles.gov
