List of online encyclopedias - Wikipedia List of online encyclopedias From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Wikimedia list article ‹ The template below (Lead too short) is being considered for restructuring. See templates for discussion to help reach a consensus. › This article's lead section does not adequately summarize key points of its contents. Please consider expanding the lead to provide an accessible overview of all important aspects of the article. Please discuss this issue on the article's talk page. (August 2019) This is a list of encyclopedias accessible on the Internet or formerly accessible on the Internet. The largest online encyclopedias are general reference works. There are also many specialized ones. Some online encyclopedia are an online copy of a paper encyclopedia, or an online version. Some, such as Wikipedia, are a separate enterprise. Contents 1 General reference 2 Biography 3 Antiquities, arts, and literature 4 Regional interest 5 Pop culture and fiction 6 Mathematics 7 Film 8 Music 9 Philosophy 10 Politics and history 11 Religion and theology 12 Science and technology 12.1 Life sciences 13 See also 14 References 15 External links General reference[edit] Site Language Description Access Baidu Baike Chinese Collaborative online encyclopedia hosted by the major Chinese search engine Baidu Free The Canadian Encyclopedia English, French General interest (original content of the hard copy Canadian Encyclopedia) Free Citizendium English General interest, wiki Free, copyleft Columbia Encyclopedia English General interest Free Conservapedia[1][2] English American conservative and Christian interests Free Crnogorska Enciklopedija Montenegrin General interest (hopes to encourage a Montenegrin language Wikipedia) Defunct Croatian Encyclopedia Croatian General and national encyclopedia Free Den Store Danske Encyklopædi Danish General interest Free Digital Universe English Collection of articles on educational, cultural, and scientific topics Free Doosan Encyclopedia Korean General interest Free EcuRed Spanish General interest. Cuban Free Ek?i Sözlük Turkish General interest Free Encarta English General interest Defunct Enciclonet Spanish General interest Limited free access and features, subscription for full access Encyclopædia Britannica English General interest Limited free access and features, subscription for full access Encyclopædia Britannica 11th Edition (1910–11) English General interest Public domain: completely free access from several online sources Encyclopedia.com English General interest Free Encyclopedia of China Chinese General interest Subscription Encyklopedia Internautica Polish General interest Free Enciclopedia Italiana di scienze, lettere ed arti Italian General interest. Published by the Istituto dell'Enciclopedia Italiana Treccani Free Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Spanish Fork of the Spanish Wikipedia, using wiki software, released under the GFDL Free, copyleft Encyclopedia Sindhiana Sindhi General interest Limited free access and features Encyclopædia Universalis French General interest encyclopedia published by Encyclopædia Britannica Subscription Everipedia English[3] The site lets editors create any page on any topic[3] and anyone can edit a page by creating a free account.[4] Free[4] Everything2 English General interest, users can submit articles on the topic of essentially anything Free GNE English General interest articles are released under a GNU license. Formerly GNUpedia. Defunct Gran Enciclopèdia Catalana Catalan General interest Free Grand Larousse encyclopédique French General interest Free Great Russian Encyclopedia Russian General interest Free Great Soviet Encyclopedia Russian, English General interest, often from the former official Soviet viewpoint. Free Hamichlol Hebrew, English General interest, designed for Haredim Free. Copyleft: mirror of Wikipedia content; copyright: original content. Hudong Chinese General interest. China's largest wiki Free. Internetowa encyklopedia PWN Polish General interest Free Interpedia English General interest, the first site to propose a free encyclopedia written by users Defunct Enciklopedio Kalblanda Esperanto General interest. The first online Esperanto encyclopedia Defunct (merged into Esperanto Wikipedia) Krugosvet (Rus. ?????????) Russian General interest. Free Marathi Vishwakosh Marathi General Interest Free Marefa Arabic General interest Free Mawdoo3 Arabic General interest Free Metapedia Hungarian, German, English, Spanish, Swedish, Romanian, Estonian, French, Slovenian, Czech, Portuguese, Norwegian, Danish, Greek, Dutch Far right-wing, white nationalist and neo nazi encyclopedia Free Meyers Konversations-Lexikon 4. ed. 1888 - 1892 German General interest Free Nationalencyklopedin Swedish General interest, comprehensive Subscription New World Encyclopedia English General interest Free. Wikipedia fork. Nupedia English Combined with GNUpedia Defunct Open Site English Categorized community-built encyclopedia, inspired by the Open Directory Project No longer an encyclopedia Probert Encyclopaedia English General interest Defunct Proleksis Encyclopedia Croatian General and national encyclopedia Free with registration Sarvavijnanakosam Malayalam General interest Free Scholarpedia English Articles are written by scholars and peer-reviewed for accuracy Free Store norske leksikon Norwegian (Bokmål) General interest Free Superpedia Bahasa Indonesia, Sundanese, Javanese General interest Free Susning.nu Swedish A Swedish language wiki 2001–2009 Defunct Tamil Encyclopedia Tamil General Interest Free T? ?i?n Bách khoa toàn th? Vi?t Nam Vietnamese General interest. State-sponsored encyclopedia. Free Veropedia English, Dutch, Spanish Mirrors stable versions of selected English Wikipedia articles Defunct WIEM Encyklopedia Polish General interest Free Wikipedia Various (see list here) General interest, wiki Free, copyleft Winkler Prins Dutch General interest, three different age levels Subscription World Book Encyclopedia English General interest Subscription Biography[edit] Site Language Description Access Australian Dictionary of Biography English Entries on notable Australians who have died Free Croatian Biographical Lexicon Croatian Multi-volume biographical reference work on notable figures from Croatian history Free Dictionary of Canadian Biography English, French Entries on notable Canadians Free Dictionary of Irish Architects English Biographical information on Irish architects from 1720 to 1940 Free Kdo byl kdo Czech Biographies on notable Czech and Slovak people Free Oxford Dictionary of National Biography English Comprehensive 66-volume reference work on notable figures from British history Subscription Dictionary of New Zealand Biography English, M?ori Entries on notable New Zealanders who have died Free Dizionario Biografico degli Italiani Italian Biographical Dictionary of Italian People, published by the Istituto dell'Enciclopedia Italiana Treccani Free Antiquities, arts, and literature[edit] Site Language Description Access Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities English Incorporates text from the 19th century encyclopedia of the same name. Focuses on topics of cultural and historical Greek and Roman significance. Free Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology English Focuses on topics dealing with Greek and Roman mythology and people Free Dictionary of Greek and Roman Geography English Focuses on topic relating to Greek and Roman geography Free Enciclopedia Dantesca Italian Devoted to Dante Alighieri and his time, by the Istituto dell'Enciclopedia Italiana Treccani Free Encyclopedia Mythica English Contains articles on mythology, folklore, and religion Free Harpers Dictionary of Classical Antiquities English Covers subjects of classical antiquity; text from 1898 Free The History of Nordic Women's Literature English, Danish, Swedish Searchable online English-language version including many biographies Free The Literary Encyclopedia English Literature related articles Subscription Oxford Art Online English Visual art; formerly Grove Art Online and The Dictionary of Art. Originally published in 1996 as a 34-volume printed encyclopedia; offered online since 1998. Subscription[5] SIKART English, German, French, Italian Biographical dictionary and database of Swiss visual art Free Regional interest[edit] See also: List of online state encyclopedias Site Language Description Access Aeiou Encyclopedia German, English Online database of Austrian culture Free Encyclopedia of Alabama English Articles on the state of Alabama Free Encyclopedia of Arkansas English Project of the Central Arkansas Library System and is the only U.S. state encyclopedia sponsored by a public library Free Banglapedia Bengali, English Bangladesh-related topics Free Chalo Chatu English Collaborative online encyclopedia hosted by Chalochatu Foundation. Features comprehensive articles on Zambian culture and history, etc. Free Dictionary of Sydney English Articles on the history and culture of Sydney, Australia Free Encyclopaedia of Islam, 3rd edition English About the Islamic world, not a Muslim encyclopaedia Subscription Encyclopædia Iranica English, plans for a future Persian version Topics on Iranology and the influence of the Iranian peoples throughout history Free Encyclopedia of Korean Culture Korean Korea-related topics Free Encyclopedia of Ukraine English and Ukrainian Ukraine related articles Free Gazetteer for Scotland English Articles on the geography and locations of Scotland Free Handbook of Texas English Articles on the U.S. State of Texas Free Historical Dictionary of Switzerland French, German and Italian Articles on the history of Switzerland. Free (without illustrations) HistoryLink English Articles pertaining to Washington state history Free Kodansha Encyclopedia of Japan English Comprehensive articles on Japanese arts and culture, history and politics, etc. Subscription MNopedia English Published by the Minnesota Historical Society Free New Georgia Encyclopedia English Articles on the U.S. state Georgia Free The Oregon Encyclopedia English Articles pertaining to Oregon Free Panyathai Thai, limited English General interest. Designed to honor the Thai king Bhumibol Adulyadej Free Te Ara: The Encyclopedia of New Zealand English, M?ori The New Zealand government site with content on the country Free Vienna History Wiki German Articles on the history of the city of Vienna, Austria. Includes 31,000 entries from the 2nd edition of Historisches Lexikon Wien. Free Pop culture and fiction[edit] Site Language Description Access Don Markstein's Toonopedia English Focuses on articles pertaining to print and animated cartoons Free Encyclopedia Dramatica English Contains humorous articles, especially those related or relevant to contemporary Internet culture. Free Emojipedia English Emoji Free Fringepedia English Contains articles pertaining to the American television drama Fringe. Free h2g2 English Collection of sometimes humorous encyclopedia articles, based on Douglas Adams's The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. Free Heroes Wiki English, Dutch, French, German, Hebrew, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish, Turkish Contains articles pertaining to the American television drama Heroes. Free Know Your Meme English A website and video series which uses wiki software to document various Internet memes and other online phenomena, such as viral videos, image macros, catchphrases, and internet celebrities.[6][7] Free Lostpedia English, German, Spanish, French, Italian, Japanese, Dutch, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Chinese Contains articles pertaining to the hit drama Lost Free Memory Alpha English, Bulgarian, Chinese, Czech, Dutch, Esperanto, French, German, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Serbian, Spanish, Swedish Articles about Star Trek Free The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction English Authors, books, films of SF Free The Rocklopedia Fakebandica English Articles on fake bands from popular entertainment Free Supernatural Wiki English Contains articles pertaining to the American television drama Supernatural. Free TV Tropes English, German, Esperanto, Spanish, French, Norwegian, Finnish, Swedish, Al Bhed, Quenya Articles related to the devices and conventions that a fiction writer can reasonably rely on as being present in the audience members' minds and expectations Free Uncyclopedia Multilingual Humour encyclopedia Free Fallout Wiki English, German, Spanish, Bulgarian, Finnish, French, Georgian, Hungarian, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Lithuanian, Dutch, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Swedish, Turkish, Chinese Fallout-related articles Free Wookieepedia English, German, Spanish, Bulgarian, Danish, Finnish, French, Croatian, Hungarian, Italian, Japanese, Dutch, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Romanian, Slovak, Slovene, Swedish, Chinese Star Wars-related articles Free WoWWiki / Wowpedia English, German, Spanish, French, Czech, Danish, Greek, Persian, Finnish, Hebrew, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Lithuanian, Latvian, Dutch, Nynorsk, Bokmål, Polish, Portuguese, Brazilian Portuguese, Russian, Slovak, Korean, Japanese, Chinese World of Warcraft-related articles Free Stargate fandom/Stargate Wiki[8] English Stargate-related articles Free Mathematics[edit] Site Language Description Access Encyclopedia of Mathematics English Encompasses articles on the topic of mathematics Free Encyclopedia of Triangle Centers English Information about ten thousands of triangle centers, including coordinates, operations, incidence, equations, etc. Free EqWorld English, Russian Articles on mathematical equations Free MathWorld English Articles on a wide variety of mathematics related topics Free On-Line Encyclopedia of Integer Sequences English Information about hundred thousands of integer sequences, including formulas, related sequences, programs, etc. Free/CC BY-NC 3.0 PlanetMath English Mathematics related topics and articles Free/GNU NLab English Category theory and related topics Free Film[edit] Site Language Description Access IMDb English, German, French, Hungarian, Italian, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Turkish and Spanish Information related to world films, television programs, home videos and video games, and internet streams free Music[edit] Site Language Description Access Bulgarian Rock Archives Bulgarian Archives of Bulgarian rock bands Encyclopaedia Metallum English Archives of heavy metal bands Free Grove Music Online English Mostly on historic and classical music worldwide; in print form is The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, which has 20 printed volumes, and was first published in 1980 Subscription[5] MOOMA Hebrew Articles on Israeli music and musical artists Free Philosophy[edit] Site Language Description Access Founder Encyclopedia of Marxism multi-lingual Topics related to the study of Marxism Free Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy English Philosophy related articles Free James Fieser Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy English Philosophy articles Subscription Edward Craig Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy English Philosophy subjects Free Edward Zalta L'Encyclopédie philosophique French Philosophy articles Free Maxime Kristanek Politics and history[edit] Site Language Description Access Ancient History Encyclopedia English Historical encyclopedia targeted at students and the general public. Reviewed by editorial team, not a Wiki. Free Ballotpedia English American politics, elections, and public policy Free The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics English Economics – part of the Library of Economics and Liberty. Edited by David R. Henderson Free Cyclopaedia of Political Science, Political Economy, and the Political History of the United States English Articles pertaining to science, economics, and American authors. The 1899 edition is available online Free Diplopedia English US State Department internal encyclopedic wiki, available for diplomats and overseas US agents to use Access only through the State Department dKosopedia English Political encyclopedia written from a progressive/liberal Democratic point of view Free Encyclopedia Titanica English Encyclopedia related to the building and sinking of the RMS Titanic Free Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential English Presents articles on perceived human problems Free Gapminder English Historical global trends in health, poverty, and demographics Free glbtq.com English Gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, and queer culture. Free HistoryLink English Articles on the history of Washington State Free Holocaust Encyclopedia English, Arabic, Persian, French, Spanish Holocaust-related articles, published by the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum Free JurisPedia Arabic, English, Chinese, French, German, Spanish, Dutch An academic encyclopedia on the concepts of law Free Our World In Data English Global trends on economic growth, poverty, health, war, violence, education and demographics Free Religion and theology[edit] Site Language Description Access Baptist Encyclopaedia[9] English a Dictionary of the Doctrines, Ordinances, Usages, Confessions of Faith, Sufferings, Labors, and Successes, and of the General History of the Baptist Denomination in All Lands, 1883 Free, public domain Boston Collaborative Encyclopedia of Western Theology English Articles on Western Christian theology Free, public domain Catholic Encyclopedia English Topics relating to Catholicism, text from 1913 and 1922 Free, public domain Christian Cyclopedia English Collection of historical and theological information Free Easton's Bible Dictionary English Articles on Christianity and theology Free, public domain Encyclopaedia Biblica English Contains articles pertaining to "the Literary, Political and Religious History, the Archaeology, Geography, and Natural History of the Bible" Free Encyclopedia of Mormonism English Articles by Mormon academics on history and doctrine of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). Free Encyclopaedia of the Presbyterian Church in the United States of America[10] English edited by Alfred Nevin, 1884 Free, public domain Encyclopaedias disciplinarum realium ideae[11] Latin Published in Latin by the Lutheran theologian Abraham Calovius in 1673. Free, public domain Theological encyclopædia and methodology[12] English Published in German by the Reformed theologian Karl Rudolf Hagenbach as Encyklopädie und Methodologie der theologischen Wissenschaften in 1833, translated into English in 1884 and published in 1891. Free, public domain Global Anabaptist Mennonite Encyclopedia Online English Topics relating to Anabaptism and Mennonites Free Jewish Encyclopedia English Topics relating to Judaism Free Jewish Virtual Library English Portals to essential Jewish topics Free Punjabipedia Punjabi Entries on Sikhism Subscription Schaff–Herzog Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge English Christian, published 1908–1914 Free, public domain The Mystica[13] English Online encyclopedia more than 20 years old. Religion, mythology and theology. Free Science and technology[edit] Site Language Description Access Encyclopedia Astronautica English Contains articles on the subject of space exploration and astronomy Free Encyclopedia of Chemistry Russian Contains articles on the subject of chemistry Free 1 2 Encyclopedia of Earth English Articles on the Earth and its ecosystems Free Encyclopedia of Laser Physics and Technology English Laser technology, photonics, and related areas such as optical fibers and ultrashort pulses. Free Encyclopedia of Science English A-to-Z of science (and technology, mathematics, philosophy, etc.) maintained and updated daily by astronomer and author David Darling Free Engineering and Technology History Wiki English The history of technology, a partnership between the United Engineering Foundation, and the AIChE, AIME, ASCE, ASME, IEEE, SPE, and SWE Free FOLDOC English Computing and related subjects Free Glottopedia English Linguistics Free Javapedia English Coverage of all topics related to the Java platform Free Omniglot English Covers languages and writing systems. Free RationalWiki[14] English Skeptical interests[15] Free ScienceWorld English Covers astronomy, scientific biography, chemistry, and physics. Like MathWorld, it is edited by Eric Weisstein. Free Life sciences[edit] Site Language Description Access Animal Diversity Web English Student wiki-type database at the University of Michigan of animal natural history, distribution, classification, and conservation biology. Free APpedia Chinese Contains articles on the subject of general animal protection Free ARKive English Visual and audio recordings of the world's species Free Encyclopedia of Life English, French Seeks to categorize all 1.8 million known species on the planet Free Encyclopedia of Life Sciences English Biology related articles Subscription Encyclopedia of Life Support Systems English Articles about the natural and social sciences Subscription Erowid English Information about psychoactive substances Free FishBase English, Spanish, Portuguese, French, German, Italian, Dutch, Chinese (Simplified Han), Chinese (Traditional Han), Greek, Swedish, Russian, Persian, Vietnamese, Thai, Lao, Hindi, Bengali Articles on fish species Free Flora Europaea English Covers different plant species Free Ganfyd English Medical content Defunct Great Medical Encyclopedia Russian Medicine Free King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Arabic Health Encyclopedia Arabic, English Health encyclopedia Free Palaeos English Covers palaeontology Free The Plant List English Covers Flora Free Radiopaedia English Articles on medical imaging used in radiology and radiography Free Wikispecies English Seeks to create a catalogue of all living things Free ZipcodeZoo English Encyclopedia of all living things Free See also[edit] Chinese encyclopedia List of academic databases and search engines List of blogs List of Danish online encyclopedic resources List of encyclopedias by branch of knowledge List of online databases List of online dictionaries List of multilingual MediaWiki sites List of wikis List of wikipedias References[edit] ^ Anderson, Nate (2007-03-05). "Conservapedia hopes to "fix" Wikipedia's "liberal bias"". Retrieved 2019-04-05. ^ Stöcker, Christian (2007-03-06). "The Lord's Encyclopedia". Retrieved 2019-06-08. ^ a b James, Andrea (12 June 2017). "Can Everipedia remake collaborative encyclopedias to be inclusive and enjoyable?". Boing Boing. ^ a b Lee, Elaine (22 March 2016). "Wharton dropout creates Wikipedia alternative alongside Rap Genius co-founder". The Daily Pennsylvanian. ^ a b In UK, can normally be accessed free via a local library ^ Bruenig, Elizabeth (11 August 2017). "Why is millennial humor so weird?". Washington Post. ^ Manning, Allee (31 December 2016). "The Darkest, Dankest Year In Memes". Vocativ. ^ Stargate Wiki ^ Google Books scan of the Baptist Encyclopaedia ^ Google Books scan of the Encyclopaedia of the Presbyterian Church in the United States of America ^ Google Books scan of Encyclopaedias disciplinarum realium ideae ^ Google Books scan of the English translation of Encyklopädie und Methodologie der theologischen Wissenschaften ^ The Mystica ^ Charles Davis (May 30, 2018). "Sloppy Sourcing Plagues". The Newsweek Daily Beast Company. Retrieved June 24, 2019. ^ Keeler, Mary; Johnson, Josh; Majumdar, Arun. "Crowdsourced Knowledge: Peril and Promise for Complex Knowledge Systems" (PDF). p. 4. Archived from the original (PDF) on April 13, 2015. Retrieved January 17, 2015. External links[edit] "Encyclopedic Knowledge, Then vs. Now", The New York Times, May 3, 2009 v t e Lists of encyclopedias By branch of knowledge By Language Online By date 18th century 19th century 20th century English Bibliography of encyclopedias v t e Wikipedia Overview (Outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing Criticism gender bias ideological bias racial bias Deletionism and inclusionism MediaWiki Notability Reliability Vandalism Predictions of the project's end Community Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Citation needed Edit-a-thon "Ignore all rules" policy List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikipedian in residence WikiConference North America Wikimania WikiProject Women in Red People Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Erik Möller Ira Brad Matetsky Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales Wikipedians Wikimedian of the Year History Bomis Logo Controversies U.S. Congressional staff edits Essjay controversy Seigenthaler biography incident Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Italian Wikipedia blackout English Wikipedia blackout Hillsborough Wikipedia posts MyWikiBiz Lsjbot VisualEditor Art+Feminism #1Lib1Ref Honors 2008 Quadriga award Wikipedia Monument 2015 Erasmus Prize 2015 Princess of Asturias Award References and analysis Cultural Bibliography Films Academic studies Listen to Wikipedia Wiki-Watch Wikipediocracy WikiScanner Wikipedia Review Mobile access Apps QRpedia Wapedia WikiNodes Wikipedia Zero Wikiwand Content use Books LLC Boundless (company) DBpedia Deletionpedia Kiwix WikiReader Science information Health information Similar projects Interpedia Nupedia Citizendium Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Everipedia Veropedia List of online encyclopedias List of wikis Related Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs Print Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) 274301 Wikipedia Viola wikipedia List Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=List_of_online_encyclopedias&oldid=945692513" Categories: Wikis Online encyclopedias Lists of encyclopedias Lists of websites Wiki communities Hidden categories: Articles with short description Wikipedia introduction cleanup from August 2019 All pages needing cleanup Articles covered by WikiProject Wikify from August 2019 All articles covered by WikiProject Wikify Articles containing Spanish-language text Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? ????? Deutsch Español ????? Français ??????? ??? ?????? Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu ?????? / srpski ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 15 March 2020, at 16:02 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Charles@Henry.ca
