Literal translation - Wikipedia Literal translation From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Not to be confused with Literary translation or loan translation. Word-by-word translation of a text This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Literal translation" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (May 2007) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (September 2007) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Part of a series on Translation Types Legal Literary Bible Quran Linguistic validation Medical Regulatory Technical Interpretation Cultural Word-for-word vs. Sense-for-sense Theory Translation studies Skopos theory Translation project Translation criticism Dynamic and formal equivalence Contrastive linguistics Technologies CAT Machine translation Mobile (machine) translation Translation management system Dubbing Subtitling Pre-editing Postediting Multimedia translation Localization Glocalization Internationalization and localization Language localisation Game localization Dub localization Website localization Institutional Associations Awards Organizations Schools Related topics Transcription Transliteration Video relay service (VRS) Telephone interpreting Language barrier Fan translation Fansub Fandub Scanlation Journalistic translation Books and magazines on translation Bible translations by language Translated books Translators v t e Literal translation, direct translation, or word-for-word translation is a translation of a text done by translating each word separately, without looking at how the words are used together in a phrase or sentence.[1] In translation theory, another term for "literal translation" is "metaphrase"; and for phrasal ("sense") translation — "paraphrase." Literal translation leads to mistranslating of idioms, which is a serious problem for machine translation.[2] Contents 1 The term as used in translation studies 1.1 Usage 1.2 Cribs 1.3 Poetry to prose 2 As bad practice 2.1 Examples 2.2 Machine translation 2.3 Pidgins 3 Translator's humor 4 See also 5 References 6 Further reading The term as used in translation studies[edit] Usage[edit] The term "literal translation" often appeared in the titles of 19th-century English translations of classical, Bible and other texts. Cribs[edit] Word-for-word translations ("cribs," "ponies", or "trots") are sometimes prepared for a writer who is translating a work written in a language he does not know. For example, Robert Pinsky is reported to have used a literal translation in preparing his translation of Dante's Inferno (1994), as he does not know Italian.[citation needed] Similarly, Richard Pevear worked from literal translations provided by his wife, Larissa Volokhonsky, in their translations of several Russian novels.[citation needed] Poetry to prose[edit] Literal translation can also denote a translation that represents the precise meaning of the original text but does not attempt to convey its style, beauty, or poetry. There is, however, a great deal of difference between a literal translation of a poetic work and a prose translation. A literal translation of poetry may be in prose rather than verse, but also be error free. Charles Singleton's translation of The Divine Comedy (1975) is regarded as a prose translation. As bad practice[edit] "Literal" translation implies that it is probably full of errors, since the translator has made no effort to convey, for example, correct idioms or shades of meaning, but it might be also useful in seeing how words are used to convey a meaning in the source language. Examples[edit] A literal English translation of the German word "Kindergarten" would be "children garden," but in English the expression refers to the school year between pre-school and first grade. Literal translations in which individual components within words or compounds are translated to create new lexical items in the target language (a process also known as “loan translation”) are called calques, e.g., “beer garden” from German “Biergarten.” Literal translation of the Italian sentence, "So che questo non va bene" ("I know that this is not good"), produces "Know(I) that this not goes(it) well," which has English words and Italian grammar. The literal English translation of the Spanish term for orca, "ballena asesina", is "killer whale". Due to the lack of appreciation for Spanish grammar, the English' official translation for the animal was erroneously literal*. Thus inadvertently changing the type of species; an orca is a type of dolphin that kills whales: "ballena asesina". The English' literal translation misleads one to think that orcas are whales that kill when the proper translation (etymology and grammar* considered) correctly describes the orca as a "whale killer". Such capacities significantly distinguishes orcas from the other dolphin species in addition to their appearance. Orcas are well known for being an apex predator, feeding on what ever they find suitable which includes Great Whites and other large predators but most notoriously for the largest beings on the planet—whales,and of all sorts. Machine translation[edit] Early machine translations (as of 1962[2] at least) were notorious for this type of translation as they simply employed a database of words and their translations. Later attempts utilized common phrases which resulted in better grammatical structure and capture of idioms but with many words left in the original language. For translating synthetic languages, a morphosyntactic analyzer and synthesizer is required. The best systems today use a combination of the above technologies and apply algorithms to correct the "natural" sound of the translation. In the end though, professional translation firms that employ machine translation use it as a tool to create a rough translation that is then tweaked by a human, professional translator. Pidgins[edit] Often, first-generation immigrants create something of a literal translation in how they speak their parents' native language. This results in a mix of the two languages in something of a pidgin. Many such mixes have specific names, e.g. Spanglish or Germish. For example, American children of German immigrants are heard using "rockingstool" from the German word "Schaukelstuhl" instead of "rocking chair". Translator's humor[edit] Literal translation of idioms is a source of numerous translators' jokes and apocrypha. The following joke has often been told both in the context of newbie translators and that of machine translation: When the sentence "The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak" (??? ????, ????? ?? ???????, an allusion to Mark 14:38) was translated into Russian and then back to English, the result was "The vodka is good, but the meat is rotten" (????? ???????, ?? ???? ????????). This is generally believed to be simply an amusing story, and not a factual reference to an actual machine translation error.[2] See also[edit] All your base are belong to us Calque Dynamic and formal equivalence Metaphrase Translation Young's Literal Translation (of the Bible) References[edit] ^ "LITERAL | meaning in the Cambridge English Dictionary". dictionary.cambridge.org. Retrieved 2019-09-21. ^ a b c John Hutchins, "The whisky was invisible", or Persistent myths of MT, MT News International 11 (June 1995), pp. 17-18. Further reading[edit] Olive Classe, Encyclopedia of literary translation into English, vol. 1, Taylor & Francis, 2000, ISBN 1-884964-36-2, p. viii. Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Literal_translation&oldid=946281583" Categories: Translation studies Error Hidden categories: Articles with short description Articles needing additional references from May 2007 All articles needing additional references Articles that may contain original research from September 2007 All articles that may contain original research Articles with multiple maintenance issues All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from November 2010 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans ??????? Az?rbaycanca Bân-lâm-gú ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)? ?eština Español Euskara ????? Français ??? Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Latina ?????? ??? Polski ??????? ???? ???? Simple English Sloven?ina Svenska Tagalog Türkçe ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 19 March 2020, at 05:27 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
