Magna Carta (An Embroidery) - Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Magna Carta (An Embroidery) Detail of the top left of Magna Carta (An Embroidery) Artist Cornelia Parker Year 2015 (2015) Type Embroidery Subject The Magna Carta English Wikipedia article as of 15 June 2014 Dimensions 1.5 m × 13 m (4.9 ft × 43 ft) Play media Documentary film on the making of Magna Carta (An Embroidery) Magna Carta (An Embroidery) is a 2015 work by English installation artist Cornelia Parker.[1] The artwork is an embroidered representation of the complete text and images of an online encyclopedia article for Magna Carta, as it appeared in English Wikipedia on 15 June 2014, the 799th anniversary of the document.[1] Contents 1 Execution 2 Embroiderers 3 Display 4 References 5 External links Execution[edit] The hand-stitched embroidery is 1.5 metres wide and nearly 13 metres long. It is a response to the legacy of Magna Carta in the digital era and Parker has referred to it as "a snapshot of where the debate is right now", the result of all open edits by English Wikipedians up to that date.[1] It was commissioned by the Ruskin School of Art at the University of Oxford in partnership with the British Library,[2] after being chosen from proposals from a shortlist of artists in February 2014.[3] Parker used a screenshot from the 15 June 2014 English Wikipedia article for Magna Carta and printed it onto fabric. Like English Wikipedia, the embroidery was created through the collaboration of many individuals. It was divided in 87 sections and sent to 200 individuals who each hand-stitched portions of the artwork. She sought the collaboration of people and groups that have been affected by and associated with Magna Carta.[4] The majority of the text was sewn by prisoners.[5] Members of the Embroiderers' Guild stitched the images, with at least one embroiderer selected from each region of the UK.[6] Many celebrities and public figures also contributed, stitching phrases or words of special significance to them.[7] Parker has represented the work as "Echoing the communal activity that resulted in the Bayeux Tapestry, but on this occasion placing more emphasis on the word rather than the image, I wanted to create an artwork that is a contemporary interpretation of Magna Carta."[1] The work includes a tea stain from a prisoner and a spot of blood from Guardian editor Alan Rusbridger, who accidentally pricked his finger while sewing.[7] Embroiderers[edit] Detail of the work reproducing an image of the 1297 copy of Magna Carta on display in the Members' Hall of Parliament House, Canberra, Australia The entire embroidery Parker invited some 200 people to hand-stitch portions of the work including prison inmates, civil rights campaigners, MPs, lawyers, barons and artists.[1] Much of the work was done by 36 prisoners from 13 different prisons in England, under the supervision of the social enterprise Fine Cell Work.[8] Members of the Embroiderers' Guild contributed the images as did students from the Royal School of Needlework and the London embroidery company Hand & Lock. Six students from La Retraite Roman Catholic Girls' School, London were the youngest contributors to the work.[9] Parker invited royalty to contribute to the work, but they declined. She said that right-wing people were more likely to decline; both Gordon Brown and Alex Salmond also declined to contribute.[10] List of contributors Julian Assange – "freedom"[7] Mary Beard Shami Chakrabarti – "Charter of Liberties"[11] Kenneth Clarke Jarvis Cocker – "common people" for the song of the same name[7] Brian Eno – "in perpetuity"[7] Anthea Godfrey (Embroiderers' Guild) – image of Pope Innocent III[7] Antony Gormley Germaine Greer Igor Judge, Baron Judge and Lady Judith Judge – "Habeas Corpus"[11] Christopher Le Brun – "folio" Doreen Lawrence, Baroness Lawrence of Clarendon – "justice", "denial" and "delay"[11] Caroline Lucas Eliza Manningham-Buller – "freedom"[11] James McNeill QC – "Abbots - witnesses" Caitlin Moran Cornelia Parker – "prerogative"[7] Janet Payne (Embroiderers' Guild) – image of John of England signing Magna Carta[6] Philip Pullman – "Oxford"[7] Alan Rusbridger – "contemporary political relevance"[7] Edward Snowden – "liberty"[7] Clive Stafford Smith – stitched his contribution while visiting a client at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp[7] Peter Tatchell – "democracy" (shared with Parker)[7] Jimmy Wales – "user's manual"[11] Sayeeda Warsi, Baroness Warsi – "freedom"[11] Baroness Shirley Williams Students from La Retraite Roman Catholic Girls' School – "Salisbury Cathedral", "Durham Cathedral", "South Africa" and "Australia"[9] Display[edit] Magna Carta (An Embroidery) formed part of an exhibition celebrating the 800th anniversary of Magna Carta. It was displayed in the Entrance Hall of the British Library from 15 May to 24 July 2015,[1] at the Whitworth Art Gallery, Manchester, August – November 2016, and in the Blackwell Hall of the Bodleian Library, Oxford, 11 November 2015 – 3 January 2016, touring other United Kingdom locations in the rest of 2016 and 2017.[12] References[edit] ^ a b c d e f "A new artwork by Cornelia Parker that responds to Magna Carta in the digital era". British Library. Retrieved 15 May 2015. ^ "Ruskin School of Art commissions artwork to mark Magna Carta's 800th anniversary". University of Oxford. 27 November 2014. ^ Claire Breay, Magna Carta (An Embroidery), British Library medieval manuscripts blog, 14 May 2015 (retrieved 17 May 2015) ^ "Cornelia Parker's Magna Carta And Alice In Wonderland At 150 Celebrated At British Library". Artlyst. 3 December 2014. ^ "Magna Carta (An Embroidery)". Retrieved 3 May 2016. ^ a b Cliss, Sarah (8 October 2014). "Janet has historic artwork all sewn up". Wisbech Standard. ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Masters, Tim (14 May 2015). "Hand-sewn Wikipedia page marks Magna Carta anniversary". BBC News. ^ Craig, Zoe (16 May 2015). "Someone's Embroidered Magna Carta's Wikipedia Page". Londonist. ^ a b Heidi and Holly (19 May 2015). "Embroidering the Magna Carta to mark 800th anniversary". BBC News School Report. ^ Jones, Jonathan (14 May 2015). "Kings and needles: the Magna Carta gets an embroidery update". The Guardian. ^ a b c d e f "Cornelia Parker unveils 13 metre-long Magna Carta embroidery at the British Library stitched by over 200 individuals, including Jarvis Cocker, Edward Snowden and Baroness Doreen Lawrence". British Library. Retrieved 16 May 2015. ^ "Cornelia Parker's Magna Carta (An Embroidery) now on display at the Weston Library". Bodleian Libraries news. University of Oxford. 11 November 2015. Retrieved 17 November 2015. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Magna Carta (An Embroidery). Fine Cell Work - the social enterprise through which prisoners stitched the text. v t e Wikipedia Overview (Outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing Criticism gender bias ideological bias racial bias Deletionism and inclusionism MediaWiki Notability Reliability Vandalism Predictions of the project's end Community Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Citation needed Edit-a-thon "Ignore all rules" policy List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikipedian in residence WikiConference North America Wikimania WikiProject Women in Red People Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Erik Möller Ira Brad Matetsky Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales Wikipedians Wikimedian of the Year History Bomis Logo Controversies U.S. Congressional staff edits Essjay controversy Seigenthaler biography incident Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Italian Wikipedia blackout English Wikipedia blackout Hillsborough Wikipedia posts MyWikiBiz Lsjbot VisualEditor Art+Feminism #1Lib1Ref Honors 2008 Quadriga award Wikipedia Monument 2015 Erasmus Prize 2015 Princess of Asturias Award References and analysis Cultural Bibliography Films Academic studies Listen to Wikipedia Wiki-Watch Wikipediocracy WikiScanner Wikipedia Review Mobile access Apps QRpedia Wapedia WikiNodes Wikipedia Zero Wikiwand Content use Books LLC Boundless (company) DBpedia Deletionpedia Kiwix WikiReader Science information Health information Similar projects Interpedia Nupedia Citizendium Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Everipedia Veropedia List of online encyclopedias List of wikis Related Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs Print Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) 274301 Wikipedia Viola wikipedia List Category v t e Embroidery Styles Assisi Bargello Berlin work Blackwork Broderie anglaise Broderie perse Candlewicking Canvas work Celtic cross stitch Counted-thread Crewel Cross-stitch Cutwork Darning Drawn thread work Goldwork Hardanger Hedebo Machine Needlepoint Quillwork Smocking Stumpwork Surface Suzani Whitework Stitches Backstitch Blanket Box Buttonhole Chain stitch Couching and laid work Cross stitches Embroidery stitch Featherstitch Holbein Parisian Running Satin stitch Sashiko Shisha Straight stitch Tent stitch Tools and materials Aida cloth Embroidery hoop Embroidery thread Evenweave Perforated paper Plainweave Plastic canvas Sampler Slip Yarn Regional and historical Art needlework Bunka shishu Brazilian Burmese Chikan Chinese (Cantonese, Suzhou, Xiang) English Indian Islamic Jacobean Japanese (Kogin-zashi) Kaitag Kantha Kasuti Korean Mountmellick Nakshi kantha Persian Opus Anglicanum Rushnyk Sewed muslin Ukrainian Vietnamese Vyshyvanka Zardozi Embroideries Butler-Bowden Cope Bayeux Tapestry Bradford carpet Great Tapestry of Scotland Great Tapestry of Scotland: People's Panel Hastings Embroidery Hestia tapestry Magna Carta (An Embroidery) Margaret Layton's jacket New World Tapestry Overlord Embroidery Prestonpans Tapestry Quaker Tapestry Scottish Diaspora Tapestry Fragments of a Cope with the Seven Sacraments Designers and embroiderers Emilie Bach Leon Conrad Kaffe Fassett Juanita Growing Thunder Fogarty Constance Howard Marilyn Leavitt-Imblum François Lesage Ann Macbeth May Morris Jessie Newbery Tetiana Protcheva Charles Germain de Saint Aubin Mary Elizabeth Turner Dimitri Vlachos - Castano Teresa Wentzler Kathleen Whyte Erica Wilson Lily Yeats Organizations and museums Embroiderers' Guild (UK) Embroiderers' Guild of America Embroidery Software Protection Coalition Needlework Development Scheme Royal School of Needlework Wemyss School of Needlework Chung Young Yang Embroidery Museum Han Sang Soo Embroidery Museum Related Appliqué Crochet Knitting Lace Needlework Quilting Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Magna_Carta_(An_Embroidery)&oldid=946095457" Categories: 2015 works English embroidery Magna Carta Works about Wikipedia Hidden categories: Commons category link is on Wikidata Articles containing Spanish-language text Articles containing video clips Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Dansk Français Svenska ?????????? Edit links This page was last edited on 18 March 2020, at 01:25 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
