María Sefidari - Wikipedia María Sefidari From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Spanish specialist in digital culture, chair of Wikimedia Foundation Board This article uses Spanish naming customs: the first or paternal family name is Sefidari and the second or maternal family name is Huici. María Sefidari María Sefidari in 2014 Born María Sefidari 1982 (age 37–38) Madrid, Spain Alma mater Complutense University of Madrid Occupation Lecturer Title Chair of the Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees Board member of Wikimedia Foundation María Sefidari Huici (born 1982, Madrid) is the chair of the Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees.[1] She was re-elected to the position in August 2019.[2] Sefidari was named a Techweek "Women's Leadership Fellow" in 2014.[3] In 2018, an essay she wrote about the upcoming European copyright reform was widely covered, including by Techcrunch and Boing Boing.[4][5][6] Contents 1 Wikipedia experience 2 Professional career 3 References 4 External links Wikipedia experience[edit] Sefidari discovered Wikipedia when her little sister explained that it was a website that anyone can edit. "Everything begins," she said in an interview with online newspaper eldiario.es, "when you start to get involved in a topic and spend many hours improving articles, and you see that there are Wikipedia policies that should be changed."[7] Shortly afterwards, she launched Wikiproyecto:LGBT to give visibility to these groups and improve and organize all the contents related to this topic, taking inspiration from English Wikipedia's WikiProject LGBT studies.[7] She has also worked to close Spanish Wikipedia's gender bias.[8][9] Sefidari is also a founding member of Wikimedia España (WMES), the Spanish chapter of the Wikimedia movement, and she served on its Board as its first Vice President.[10] In 2012, she was elected a member of the Chapters' Committee (ChapCom), the Wikimedia community committee entrusted with advising the Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees on the approval of new national or subnational chapters. In mid-2012, following a community discussion and a resulting Board of Trustees' resolution, the scope of the Committee was expanded and it transitioned into the Affiliations Committee (AffCom), and now includes thematic organisations and user groups. In June 2013, Sefidari was elected to the Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees by the community of Wikipedia editors. Her term expired in June 2015. In 2016 she was appointed to the Board in fill a vacancy.[1] She was re-elected to the position of Chair in August 2019.[2] Professional career[edit] Sefidari received a Bachelor's Degree in Psychology and a Master's Degree in Management and Tourism from Complutense University of Madrid. She has lecturered at King Juan Carlos University on their Digital Communication, Culture and Citizenship program.[11][12] References[edit] ^ a b "María Sefidari". Wikimedia Foundation. Wikimedia Foundation. Retrieved 2 September 2019. ^ a b "Wikimedia Foundation announces Shani Evenstein Sigalov as new Trustee, as well as leadership appointments at fifteenth annual Wikimania". Wikimedia Foundation. Wikimedia Foundation. Retrieved 29 August 2019. ^ "Women's Leadership Fellows". Techweek (conference). Retrieved 2 September 2019. ^ Sefidari, Maria. "Your internet is under threat. Here's why you should care about European Copyright Reform". Medium. Retrieved 15 September 2019. ^ Lomas, Natasha. "Wikimedia warns EU copyright reform threatens the 'vibrant free web'". Techcrunch. Retrieved 15 September 2019. ^ Doctorow, Cory. "Wikipedia's warning: EU copyright changes threaten the internet itself". Boing Boing. Retrieved 15 September 2019. ^ a b Caballero, Lucía (15 March 2017). "La española que ha llegado a vicepresidir Wikimedia defendiendo al colectivo LGBT" [The Spanish Woman Who Has Become Wikimedia Vice President Defending the LGBT Community]. eldiario.es (in Spanish). Retrieved 15 September 2019. ^ Puga, Jessica M. (18 October 2016). "Wikipedia se llena de nombres de mujer" [Wikipedia is Filled with Women's Names]. El Comercio (in Spanish). Oviedo. Retrieved 15 September 2019. ^ Calvo Tarancón, Sara (8 July 2016). "Nosotras creamos, nosotras editamos" [We Create, We Edit]. Público (in Spanish). Madrid. Retrieved 15 September 2019. ^ Delclós, Tomàs (11 January 2011). "Wikipedia: 10 años y 278 ediciones" [Wikipedia: 10 years and 278 Editions]. El País (in Spanish). Barcelona. Retrieved 15 September 2019. ^ "Wikimedia: otras formas de colaborar para compartir conocimiento". Medialab Prado. Retrieved 2 September 2019. ^ King Juan Carlos University. "Table of lecturers on the Masters in Digital Communication, Culture and Citizenship 2017-18" (PDF). Retrieved 8 October 2019. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to María Sefidari. Maria Sefidari's Wikipedia user page María Sefidari on Twitter Interview with Maria Sefidari on The Objective v t e Wikimedia Foundation People Current Aaron Halfaker James Heilman Dariusz Jemielniak Katherine Maher Jimmy Wales Past Hampton Catlin Danese Cooper Bishakha Datta Florence Devouard Oscar van Dillen Sue Gardner Arnnon Geshuri Mike Godwin Guy Kawasaki Erik Möller Lila Tretikov Luis Villa Patricio Lorente Content projects Wikipedia List of Wikipedias Wiktionary List of Wiktionaries Wikimedia Commons Wikidata Wikiquote Wikibooks Wikisource Wikispecies Wikinews Wikiversity Wikivoyage Other Wikimedia movement List of Wikimedia chapters Wikimania Wiki Indaba MediaWiki Litigation Wikimedia v. NSA Knowledge Engine Related The Signpost Wikipedia Monument v t e Wikipedia Overview (Outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing Criticism gender bias ideological bias racial bias Deletionism and inclusionism MediaWiki Notability Reliability Vandalism Predictions of the project's end Community Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Citation needed Edit-a-thon "Ignore all rules" policy List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikipedian in residence WikiConference North America Wikimania WikiProject Women in Red People Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Erik Möller Ira Brad Matetsky Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales Wikipedians Wikimedian of the Year History Bomis Logo Controversies U.S. Congressional staff edits Essjay controversy Seigenthaler biography incident Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Italian Wikipedia blackout English Wikipedia blackout Hillsborough Wikipedia posts MyWikiBiz Lsjbot VisualEditor Art+Feminism #1Lib1Ref Honors 2008 Quadriga award Wikipedia Monument 2015 Erasmus Prize 2015 Princess of Asturias Award References and analysis Cultural Bibliography Films Academic studies Listen to Wikipedia Wiki-Watch Wikipediocracy WikiScanner Wikipedia Review Mobile access Apps QRpedia Wapedia WikiNodes Wikipedia Zero Wikiwand Content use Books LLC Boundless (company) DBpedia Deletionpedia Kiwix WikiReader Science information Health information Similar projects Interpedia Nupedia Citizendium Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Everipedia Veropedia List of online encyclopedias List of wikis Related Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs Print Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) 274301 Wikipedia Viola wikipedia List Category This Wikimedia Foundation-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=María_Sefidari&oldid=941532879" Categories: 1982 births Living people Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees members Complutense University of Madrid alumni Wikipedia people People from Madrid Wikimedia Foundation stubs Hidden categories: CS1 Spanish-language sources (es) Articles with short description Use dmy dates from September 2019 Articles with hCards Commons category link is on Wikidata Wikipedia articles with Wikipedia user page links Articles containing Spanish-language text All stub articles Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Deutsch Español Français Galego Português Edit links This page was last edited on 19 February 2020, at 04:06 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
