Mashup (music) - Wikipedia Mashup (music) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (December 2008) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Mash-up music Stylistic origins Pop rock electronic Cultural origins Late 1990s, 2000s; Europe, North America Typical instruments Digital audio editor sampler sequencer DJ turntables audio mixer Derivative forms Sampling sound collage remix Regional scenes United Kingdom United States Germany France Australia Norway Netherlands Switzerland Sweden Indonesia Canada India Belgium Austria Brazil Italy Japan A mashup (also mesh, mash up, mash-up, blend, or bootleg[1]) is a creative work, usually in a form of a song, created by blending two or more pre-recorded songs, usually by superimposing the vocal track of one song seamlessly over the instrumental track of another, increasing the tempo and pitch while adding or reducing gaps to make it flow.[2] To the extent that such works are "transformative" of original content, in the United States they may find protection from copyright claims under the "fair use" doctrine of copyright law.[3] Contents 1 History 2 Notable mash-up albums 3 See also 4 References 5 Further reading History[edit] The 1990 John Zorn album Naked City features a version of Ornette Coleman's "Lonely Woman" set over the bassline of Roy Orbison's "Pretty Woman".[4][example's importance?] In 1994, the experimental band Evolution Control Committee released the first modern mashup tracks on their hand-made cassette album, Gunderphonic. These "Whipped Cream Mixes" combined a pair of Public Enemy a cappellas with instrumentals by Herb Alpert and the Tijuana Brass. First released on home-made cassettes in early 1992, it was later pressed on 7" vinyl, and distributed by Eerie Materials in the mid-1990s. The tracks gained some degree of notoriety on college radio stations in the United States.[5][third-party source needed] The name Pop Will Eat Itself was taken from an NME feature on the band Jamie Wednesday, written by David Quantick, which proposed the theory that because popular music simply recycles good ideas continuously, the perfect pop song could be written by combining the best of those ideas into one track. Hence, Pop Will Eat Itself.[6][example's importance?] The mashup movement gained momentum again in 2001 with the release of the 2 Many DJs album As Heard on Radio Soulwax Pt. 2 by Soulwax's Dewaele brothers, which combined 45 different tracks; the same year a remix of Christina Aguilera's "Genie in a Bottle" was also released by Freelance Hellraiser, which coupled Aguilera's vocals with the guitar track of "Hard To Explain" by New York's [[The Strokes],] in a pie cecalled "A Stroke of Genie-us".[7] Launched in San Francisco in 2003, Bootie was the first club night in the United States dedicated solely to the burgeoning art form of the bootleg mashup, and now[when?] hosts monthly parties in several cities around the globe, including Los Angeles, Paris, Boston, Munich, and New York City. The party's slogan, "Music for the A.D.D. Generation" also inspired the creation of "A.D.D", Israel's first mash-up dedicated party.[8] The Best of Bootie mashup compilation series is compiled and produced each year by A Plus D, creators of the international mashup club Bootie. The compilations have been released in December every year since 2005, and are annual Internet sensations, with each album garnering over 5000GB+ of downloads.[9] Notable mash-up albums[edit] This section gives self-sourcing popular culture examples without describing their significance in the context of the article. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources that describe the examples' significance, and by removing less pertinent examples. Unsourced or poorly sourced material may be challenged or removed. (March 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Albums by A-Trak 2007: Dirty South Dance Albums by Girl Talk 2003: Unstoppable 2006: Night Ripper 2008: Feed the Animals 2010: All Day Albums by The Kleptones 2003: Yoshimi Battles the Hip-Hop Robots (rappers over The Flaming Lips' Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robots) 2004: A Night at the Hip Hopera (rappers over Queen) 2010: Uptime / Downtime Albums by Max Tannone 2009: Jaydiohead 2009: Doublecheck Your Head 2010: Mos Dub 2010: Dub Kweli Albums by wait what 2010: the notorious xx Albums by TenDJiz 2011: De La Soulviet – De La Soul with Soviet soul and jazz[10] 2012: Commonasm – Common and Nas with Soviet soul and jazz[11] Albums by Neil Cicierega 2014: Mouth Sounds 2014: Mouth Silence 2017: Mouth Moods Other notable albums and individual tracks The 1997 version of "People Hold On" is a blend of the vocals from the original 1989 hit by Lisa Stansfield and the backing track from the 1997 UK Number One hit "Professional Widow" by Tori Amos. In 2003 Dannii Minogue was subject to two mashups, the first being "Begin to Spin Around" by using the vocals from her hit single "I Begin to Wonder" and the backing from "You Spin Me Round (Like a Record)" by Dead or Alive, and the second being "Don't Wanna Lose This Groove", using vocals from her song "Don't Wanna Lose This Feeling" and the back from "Into the Groove" by Madonna. At the 2002 Brit Awards ceremony, Kylie Minogue performed "Can't Get Blue Monday Out of My Head" a mashup of "Can't Get You Out Of My Head" and "Blue Monday". The American Edit album by Dean Gray (a collaboration between Party Ben and Team9) was based on the album American Idiot by Green Day and carried the original version of one of the most well-known mashups, "Boulevard of Broken Songs". "Toca's Miracle" by Fragma – mashup of Coco Star's "I Need a Miracle" and Fragma's "Toca Me". The Grey Album by Danger Mouse (2004) – mashup of Jay Z's The Black Album with The Beatles' The White Album "Doctor Pressure" originally created by Phil 'n' Dog in 2004, eventually released by Mylo in 2005. "Numb/Encore" by Linkin Park & Jay Z, the most popular of the six mash-ups on their album Collision Course. The song was a hit amongst radio stations and eventually went on to win a Grammy.[12] "Love" by the Beatles (for the Cirque du Soleil show Love) in 2006. "Everyday Chemistry", a mashup album consisting of several separate solo Beatles songs to make one album credited to The Beatles. "My California Gurl"[13] The X Factor group Emblem3 performed a three-way mashup of "My Girl" by The Temptations, "California Gurls" by Katy Perry and Snoop Dogg, and "What Makes You Beautiful" by One Direction. The song consists of two verses and the refrain from "My Girl" and the main chorus from "California Gurls", plus an original rap verse set to the backing track of "What Makes You Beautiful". See also[edit] Mashup (culture) Mashup (video) Sound collage Plunderphonics WhoSampled Parody music Quodlibet Pastiche "One Song to the Tune of Another" References[edit] ^ Rojas, Pete (1 August 2002). "Bootleg culture". Salon. Archived from the original on 17 June 2006. ^ Geoghegan, Michael and Klass, Dan (2005). Podcast Solutions: The Complete Guide to Podcasting, p.45. ISBN 1-59059-554-8. ^ "Code of Best Practices in Fair Use for Online Video". Center for Social Media, American University. Archived from the original on 2 June 2010. ^ Dancing in Your Head. Books.google.co.uk. Retrieved 18 December 2014. ^ [1][dead link] ^ "Who the hell is Clint Mansell?". Sickamongthepure.com. Archived from the original on 10 October 2004. Retrieved 18 December 2014. ^ Wolk, Douglas (21 January 2008). "Barely Legal". Villagevoice.com. Retrieved 18 December 2014. ^ Jam, Billy (23 May 2007). "Music For Generation ADD: Mashups quietly mature into a thriving subculture". New York Press. Archived from the original on 25 July 2008. ^ "Mashup best-of 2006 album". Boing Boing. Retrieved 18 December 2014. ^ "De La Soul + Soviet soul and jazz = De La Soulviet" – Los Angeles Times, 28 October 2011 ^ "TenDJiz Talks Soviet Jazz and Hip-Hop Mashup Album CommoNasm" – Miami New Times, Jule 9, 2012 ^ ""Numb/Encore" wins a Grammy", 'Jay-Z And Linkin Park Win Best Rap/Sung Collaboration Grammy'. Rockdirt.com 9 February 2006 ^ musiklatina10 (7 November 2012), Emblem 3 - My Girl and California Gurls Mashup - The X Factor USA 2012 (Live Show 2), retrieved 17 July 2018 Further reading[edit] Paul Morley (2003). Words and Music: A History of Pop in the Shape of a City. Bloomsbury. ISBN 0-7475-5778-0. Jeremy J. Beadle (1993). Will Pop Eat Itself? Faber & Faber. ISBN 0-571-16241-X. Roseman, Jordan (2006). Audio Mashup Construction Kit. ISBN 0-471-77195-3. Hughes, J. & Lang, K. (2006). Transmutability: Digital Decontextualization, Manipulation, and Recontextualization as a New Source of Value in the Production and Consumption of Culture Products. In Proceedings of the 39th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences – Volume 08. Sinnreich, Aram (2010). Mashed Up: Music, Technology & the Rise of Configurable Culture [2]. ISBN 1-55849-829-X. v t e Intellectual property activism Issues Artificial scarcity Copyright infringement Copyright troll Digital rights management Gripe site Legal aspects of file sharing Mashup digital music videos Monopolies of knowledge Music piracy Orphan works Patents biological software software patent debate trolling Public domain Concepts All rights reversed Alternative compensation system Anti-copyright notice Business models for open-source software Copyleft Commercial use of copyleft works Commons-based peer production Electronic sell-through Free content Free software license Libertarian positions Open content Open-design movement Open Music Model Open patent Open-source Open-source hardware Open-source software Prize system contests Share-alike Video on demand Movements Access to Knowledge movement Anti-copyright Cultural environmentalism Free-culture movement Free software movement Organizations Pro-copyright Copyright Alliance Pro-copyleft Creative Commons Electronic Frontier Foundation Free Software Foundation Open Rights Group Organization for Transformative Works The Pirate Bay Piratbyrån Pirate Party Public Knowledge Sci-Hub Students for Free Culture People Cory Doctorow Alexandra Elbakyan Rick Falkvinge Lawrence Lessig Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Documentaries Steal This Film (2006, 2007) Good Copy Bad Copy (2007) RiP!: A Remix Manifesto (2008) TPB AFK: The Pirate Bay Away From Keyboard (2013) The Internet's Own Boy (2014) v t e Appropriation in the arts By field Music Bootleg recording Contrafact List Contrafactum Cover version Interpolation List of musical medleys Music mashup Music plagiarism Musical quotation Parody music Pasticcio Plunderphonics Potpourri DJ mix Quodlibet Remix Sampling Sound collage Trope Variation Literature / theatre Assemblage Cut-up technique Joke theft Jukebox musical Trope Found poetry Flarf poetry Verbatim theatre Painting / sculpture / comics / photography Collage Swipe Comic strip switcheroo Photographic mosaic Combine painting By source material Mona Lisa Michelangelo's David Michelangelo's Pietà Statue of Liberty Cinema / television / video Video mashup Re-cut trailer TV format Found footage Remake Parody film Collage film Literal music video Supercut General concepts Intertextual figures Allusion Calque Plagiarism Pastiche Parody Quotation Translation Adaptation Drama Film Literary Theatre Other concepts Assemblage (art) Bricolage Citation Derivative work Détournement Found object Homage Imitation in art Mashup Reprise Source criticism in the arts Related artistic concepts Originality Artistic inspiration Afflatus Genius (literature) Genre Genre studies Parody advertisement In-joke Tribute act Fan fiction Simulacrum Archetypal literary criticism Readymades of Marcel Duchamp Anti-art Pop art Aesthetic interpretation Western canon Standard blocks and forms Jazz standard Stock character Plot device Dramatic structure Formula fiction Monomyth Archetype Epoch-marking works L.H.O.O.Q. (1919) "Pierre Menard, Author of the Quixote" (1939) Reality Hunger: A Manifesto (2010) Theorization Mimesis Diegesis Dionysian imitatio De Copia Rerum Romantic movement Russian formalism Modernist movement Postmodern movement Palimpsests: Literature in the Second Degree Related non-artistic concepts Cultural appropriation Appropriation in sociology Articulation in sociology Trope (literature) Academic dishonesty Authorship Genius Intellectual property Recontextualisation Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mashup_(music)&oldid=947552738" Categories: Mashup Musical techniques Repurposing 1990s in music 2000s in music 2010s in music Intellectual property activism Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from December 2014 Articles that may contain original research from December 2008 All articles that may contain original research Use dmy dates from June 2013 All articles lacking reliable references Articles lacking reliable references from March 2019 All articles with vague or ambiguous time Vague or ambiguous time from March 2019 Articles needing additional references from March 2019 All articles needing additional references Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Català ?eština Deutsch Español ????? Français Galego ??? Hrvatski Italiano ????? Nederlands ??? Polski Português ??????? Simple English ?????? / srpski Suomi Svenska ??? ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 27 March 2020, at 00:32 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
