MyWikiBiz - Wikipedia MyWikiBiz From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search MyWikiBiz Type of business Private Type of site Wiki Available in Multilingual Founded 2006 Headquarters Stuart, Florida, United States Founder(s) Gregory Kohs Key people Gregory Kohs (CEO) URL mywikibiz.com Alexa rank 1,430,673 (March 2016[update])[1] Advertising AdSense[citation needed] Registration Optional (required to edit pages) Launched 2006 Current status Active MyWikiBiz is a wiki directory that allows people and enterprises to write about themselves. The brand began as a service creating Wikipedia articles for paying corporations. History[edit] Gregory Kohs and his sister started the MyWikiBiz venture in July 2006, as a paid editing service, writing content for inclusion in Wikipedia and other community-edited sites. Kohs charged between $49 and $99 USD for articles.[2] At the time, though it was widely known that Wikipedia was used by corporations and public relations firms, such contributions were often hidden, only to be discovered later.[3][4] Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales expressed opposition to the idea of a paid editing service.[2] A few days after MyWikiBiz was launched, the site's user account was blocked by Wales on the grounds of "paid editing on behalf of customers". It was one of the few such blocks personally by Wales in Wikipedia's history.[5] Wales viewed the problem as one of "conflict of interest and the appearance of impropriety arising from editors being paid to write by the subjects of the articles".[5] He and Kohs reached an agreement, under which Kohs could create "Wikipedia-like" articles on his site and that they could then be "scraped" to Wikipedia by Wikipedia editors. The agreement soon unraveled, and Kohs was blocked from editing Wikipedia.[2][5] In his book The Future of the Internet – And How to Stop It, Jonathan Zittrain said that Wales believed that MyWikiBiz had been "spamming Wikipedia with corporate advertisements rather than 'neutral point of view' articles", but also that MyWikiBiz persuaded some Wikipedians to lower objections to an article merely because of its source.[5] The Chronicle of Higher Education said "it's hard to feel too bad for MyWikiBiz," and that "if the encyclopedia is serious about gaining acceptance from academia, surely it has a vested interest in dissuading companies from paying to improve their presence on the site."[6] In late October 2006, Kohs formed a partnership to promote and market a wiki-based directory at Centiare.com,[2][7] after which Kohs moved its contents to MyWikiBiz.com.[8] References[edit] ^ "Mywikibiz.com Site Info". Alexa Internet. Retrieved 2017-03-16. ^ a b c d Bergstein, Brian (2007-01-24). "Idea of paid entries roils Wikipedia". NBC News/Associated Press. Retrieved 2008-08-20. ^ Peer, Mathias (2006-08-24). "Wikipedia-Artikel, die man kaufen kann (Wikipedia articles that you can buy)". Die Welt (in German). Retrieved 2008-08-20. ^ Noisette, Thierry (2006-08-11). "Wikipedia, nouvel enjeu de relations publiques (Wikipedia, a new issue of public relations)" (in French). ZDNet. Retrieved 2008-08-27. ^ a b c d Zittrain, Jonathan (2008). The Future of the Internet – And How to Stop It. Yale University Press. p. 140. ISBN 978-0-300-12487-3. ^ Read, Brock (2007-01-24). "Wikipedia Blocks a Pay-for-Play Scheme". The Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved 2008-08-27. ^ "Centiare on the heels of Wikipedia". press release. 2007-01-05. Retrieved 2008-08-20. ^ Sebastian Ryszard Kruk; Bill McDaniel; W. William D. McDaniel, eds. (2008). Semantic Digital Libraries. Springer. p. 58. Retrieved June 3, 2013. v t e Conflict-of-interest editing on Wikipedia Incidents Commercial Indian Institute of Planning and Management / Wifione MyWikiBiz Operation Orangemoody Portland Communications Sony Pictures Sunshine Sachs WikiExperts Wiki-PR Political Bell Pottinger Committee for Accuracy in Middle East Reporting in America U.S. Congressional staff Other Church of Scientology Saskatoon Police Service Reporting tools CongressEdits WikiScanner Related Corporate Representatives for Ethical Wikipedia Engagement Linkspam Reputation management Search engine optimization Paid editing reports at The Signpost v t e Wikipedia Overview (Outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing Criticism gender bias ideological bias racial bias Deletionism and inclusionism MediaWiki Notability Reliability Vandalism Predictions of the project's end Community Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Citation needed Edit-a-thon "Ignore all rules" policy List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikipedian in residence WikiConference North America Wikimania WikiProject Women in Red People Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Erik Möller Ira Brad Matetsky Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales Wikipedians Wikimedian of the Year History Bomis Logo Controversies U.S. Congressional staff edits Essjay controversy Seigenthaler biography incident Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Italian Wikipedia blackout English Wikipedia blackout Hillsborough Wikipedia posts MyWikiBiz Lsjbot VisualEditor Art+Feminism #1Lib1Ref Honors 2008 Quadriga award Wikipedia Monument 2015 Erasmus Prize 2015 Princess of Asturias Award References and analysis Cultural Bibliography Films Academic studies Listen to Wikipedia Wiki-Watch Wikipediocracy WikiScanner Wikipedia Review Mobile access Apps QRpedia Wapedia WikiNodes Wikipedia Zero Wikiwand Content use Books LLC Boundless (company) DBpedia Deletionpedia Kiwix WikiReader Science information Health information Similar projects Interpedia Nupedia Citizendium Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Everipedia Veropedia List of online encyclopedias List of wikis Related Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs Print Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) 274301 Wikipedia Viola wikipedia List Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=MyWikiBiz&oldid=940902766" Categories: Online publishing companies of the United States 2006 establishments in Pennsylvania American companies established in 2006 Privately held companies based in Pennsylvania Companies based in Chester County, Pennsylvania Wikipedia controversies Hidden categories: CS1 German-language sources (de) CS1 French-language sources (fr) Articles containing potentially dated statements from March 2017 All articles containing potentially dated statements All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from December 2019 Articles containing Spanish-language text Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu ??????? Simple English Edit links This page was last edited on 15 February 2020, at 10:07 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Moses@Franklin.gov
