National Health and Medical Research Council - Wikipedia National Health and Medical Research Council From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "National Health and Medical Research Council" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (August 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) National Health and Medical Research Council Agency overview Formed 1936 Jurisdiction Commonwealth of Australia Headquarters Level 1, 16 Marcus Clarke Street, Canberra Motto Building a healthy Australia Employees 218[1] Minister responsible Greg Hunt, Minister for Health Agency executive Anne Kelso, CEO Parent department Department of Health Website www.nhmrc.gov.au The National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) is Australia's peak funding body for medical research, with a budget of roughly $900 million a year.[2][3] The Council was established to develop and maintain health standards and is responsible for implementing the National Health and Medical Research Council Act 1992.[4] NHMRC is a material agency and is incorporated under the federal Financial Management and Accountability Act 1997. It was a part of the Department of Health and Ageing portfolio until mid-2007 when it became a self-governing statutory authority. Along with the Australian Research Council (ARC), NHMRC is one of the Australian government's two main agencies for allocating competitively research funding to academics and researchers at Australian universities. Contents 1 Medical research grading 2 History 3 Funding recipients 3.1 CJ Martin Fellowship 4 Awards 4.1 Commonwealth Health Minister's Award for Excellence in Health and Medical Research 5 See also 6 References 7 External links Medical research grading[edit] NHMRC research grading is commonly used to assess medical publications. These include, from the most reliable to least: systematic review, randomized control trial, cohort study, case control, case series.[5] History[edit] In 2010 the NHMRC's new online system for grant applications was the subject of criticism after a series of technical problems.[6] The community organisation Organisation Intersex International Australia criticised the NHMRC for funding research programs that pathologise intersex variations as disorders.[7][8] Funding recipients[edit] See also: Category:Recipients of grants/fellowships from the National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) CJ Martin Fellowship[edit] This list is incomplete; you can help by expanding it. Eugenie Lumbers, first women to receive a CJ MArtin Fellowship, fetal physiology Levon Khachigian, vascular biology and transcriptional control Catherine Thornton Jared Purton, T cells and vaccines Bryce Vissel, neuroscience Awards[edit] Commonwealth Health Minister's Award for Excellence in Health and Medical Research[edit] The award also includes a grant of $50,000. The award was first made in the year 2000.[9] Recipients include: This list is incomplete; you can help by expanding it. Doug Hilton 2000[9] David Celermajer 2002 Josephine Forbes 2010 [9] Justine Gatt 2014, mental health – resilience defining characteristics in people who are able to positively adapt to adversity[10] Philip Batterham 2015, development of a mental health online support tool[11] Joseph Powell 2016, investigations of DNA sequence variation contribution to human disease using statistical genomics[12] Julian Elliott 2017, development and evaluation of new data systems, citizen science research, and machine learning, into evidence-based HIV related health care.[13] Levon Khachigian Anton Peleg[9] See also[edit] Australia portal Health care in Australia References[edit] ^ APS Statistical Bulletin 2015-2016 (Report). Australian Public Service Commission. September 2016. ^ Outcomes of funding rounds: "The 2015 NHMRC Grant Application Round has resulted in the commitment of more than $896 million to fund health and medical research including 1030 new grants to universities, medical research institutions and hospitals across Australia." ^ NHMRC research funding datasets 1990–2010 ^ National Health and Medical Research Council Act 1992 ^ "NHMRC additional levels of evidence and grades for recommendations for developers of guidelines" (PDF). Australian Government. National Health and Medical Research Council. Retrieved 15 October 2012. ^ Healy, Guy (17 March 2010). "Online grants system proves a nightmare". The Australian. Retrieved 22 March 2010. ^ Carpenter, Morgan; Organisation Intersex International Australia (6 February 2015). Submission to the Australian Human Rights Commission: Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Intersex Rights Snapshot Report. Sydney: Organisation Intersex International Australia. ^ Carpenter, Morgan; Organisation Intersex International Australia (30 April 2014), Submission on the Review of Part B of the Ethical Guidelines for the Use of Assisted Reproductive Technology in Clinical Practice and Research, 2007, Sydney: Organisation Intersex International Australia ^ a b c d "Associate Professor Julian Elliott recognised for outstanding achievement". National Health and Medical Research Council. 24 January 2017. Retrieved 16 April 2019. ^ "Research Excellence Awards 2014". National Health and Medical Research Council. 24 January 2015. Retrieved 16 April 2019. ^ "Commonwealth Health Minister's Award for Excellence in Health and Medical Research 2015". National Health and Medical Research Council. 24 January 2016. Retrieved 16 April 2019. ^ "Commonwealth Health Minister's Award for Excellence in Health and Medical Research 2016". National Health and Medical Research Council. 24 January 2017. Retrieved 16 April 2019. ^ "Outstanding researcher recognised with Commonwealth Health Minister's Award for Excellence in Health and Medical Research". National Health and Medical Research Council. 8 June 2018. Retrieved 16 April 2019. External links[edit] Official website v t e Medical research institutes and centres of Australia Australian Government Peer-review agencies National Health and Medical Research Council Australian Research Council ACT John Curtin NSW Brain and Mind Centre Centenary Charles Perkins Centre CCIA CMRI Garvan George Institute Heart Research Institute Hunter Kirby Kolling NeuRA NSURG UNSW Lowy Cancer Research Centre Victor Chang Westmead Institute Woolcock QLD AITHM IHBI QIMR Berghofer TRI SA SAHMRI TAS Menzies Institute for Medical Research VIC ARMI Australian Stem Cell Centre Baker IDI Bio21 Bionics Institute Bronowski Burnet Institute Florey Hudson Institute LIMS MCRI PeterMac SVI VCCC WEHI WA Harry Perkins Institute Lions Eye Institute Telethon Kids Institute Defunct institutes Austin Research Institute Mental Health Research Institute Monash Institute of Medical Research Prince Henry's Institute of Medical Research Category This Australian government-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=National_Health_and_Medical_Research_Council&oldid=946652300" Categories: Commonwealth Government agencies of Australia Funding bodies of Australia Australia government stubs Health care quality Research in Australia Medical research institutes in Australia 1936 establishments in Australia Recipients of grants/fellowships from the National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) Hidden categories: Use dmy dates from October 2016 Use Australian English from October 2016 All Wikipedia articles written in Australian English Articles needing additional references from August 2010 All articles needing additional references Incomplete lists from March 2019 Incomplete lists from April 2019 All stub articles Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Español Français ??????? Türkçe Edit links This page was last edited on 21 March 2020, at 15:14 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
