National and University Library in Zagreb - Wikipedia National and University Library in Zagreb From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (December 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article may rely excessively on sources too closely associated with the subject, potentially preventing the article from being verifiable and neutral. Please help improve it by replacing them with more appropriate citations to reliable, independent, third-party sources. (August 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) National and University Library in Zagreb Nacionalna i sveu?ilišna knjižnica u Zagrebu National and University Library building Country Croatia Established 1607 (413 years ago) (1607) Location Zagreb Collection Size 3 million items Legal deposit Yes, since 1816 Access and use Population served 357,291 (2011) 718,850 online (2011) Members 19,360 Other information Director Dr Ivanka Stri?evi? Website www.nsk.hr/en/ Map National and University Library in Zagreb (NSK) (Croatian: Nacionalna i sveu?ilišna knjižnica u Zagrebu, NSK; formerly Nacionalna i sveu?ilišna biblioteka u Zagrebu, NSB) is the national library of Croatia and central library of the University of Zagreb. The Library was established in 1607.[1] Its primary mission is the development and preservation of Croatian national written heritage. It holds around 3 million items. Since 1995 the NSK has been located in a purpose-built cubical building in central Zagreb. Contents 1 Services 2 Statistics 3 The Library’s tasks 4 Collections 4.1 Digital collections 4.2 Special collections 4.3 Reading rooms collections 5 Historical overview 6 References 7 External links Services[edit] Services provided include lending and reference services (bibliographic-reference and catalogue information, subject search, science citation index search); interlibrary loan; national bibliographic database; IT services (reprographic services, microfilming, digitization, use of computer equipment); and learning programmes for users. Exhibitions are mounted, and parts of the Library’s premises may be leased. Statistics[edit] The Library houses approximately 3 million volumes, on 12,900m of shelving in open-access reading rooms and an additional 110,000m of mobile shelving in closed stacks. The net floor area is 36,478m2, and the gross floor area 44,432m2. Acquisitions under legal deposit total 18,194 monographic publications and 3,625 serial publications. There are 1,030 foreign serial titles and 4,865 foreign books. The holdings in the special collections number 11,430 items. There are 7,281 items of non-book materials, and 986 items of electronic materials. In 2011 there were 19,360 registered users and 357,291 visitors to the Library, of whom 22,445 used late hours study services. In the same year there were 718,850 online visitors. For users, there are 1,100 seats, with an additional 64 seats in the Reading Rooms and 150 seats in the evening hours study room. The Special Collections are provided with 8 audio booths, 7 individual and 2 group work study rooms, and there are 10 reading-and-study compartments. There is a 100-seat conference room. The Library’s tasks[edit] Some of the principal tasks of the Library are: 1. the assembling and organizing of the Croatian national collection of library materials and the coordination of the acquisition of international scientific works at both the national and the University level, 2. the preservation and restoration of library materials in the context of the international Preservation and Conservation programme (PAC), 3. the promotion of Croatian printed and electronic publications, 4. the integration of the Library’s bibliographic activities and information services into international programmes, 5. the organization of the Library as the centre of the library system of the Republic of Croatia and the University of Zagreb, 6. scientific research in the field of library and information sciences, 7. publishing and various promotional activities and the organization of exhibitions. Collections[edit] Digital collections[edit] Digitized Heritage Historic Croatian Newspapers Old Croatian Journals Croatian Web Archive Digital Academic Repository Special collections[edit] The Manuscripts and Old Books Collection The Collection assembles, preserves, processes and makes available the items from the richest Croatian collection of national manuscripts and old books, as well as the manuscripts and numerous rare and old books belonging to other cultures. The Manuscripts and Old Books Collection contains a vast legacy of manuscripts – correspondence including nearly 100,000 letters and 3,670 call numbers for individual manuscripts (1,720 in Croatian, 920 in Latin, 454 in German, 230 in Italian, etc.). The Collection also includes the photographic collection containing 865 items. In total the Collection contains 9,236 items (10,295 volumes).[2] The Print Collection Valuable drawings and prints have constituted a significant part of the holdings of the National and University Library in Zagreb since the foundation of the Library four hundred years ago, while the Print Collection, as a separate organizational unit of the Library, was established in 1919. Apart from being the oldest Croatian collection of this type, the Print Collection of the National and University Library in Zagreb is also the largest print collection in Croatia. In addition to the works by many great names of the Croatian visual arts, the holdings of the Collection include works by numerous leading world artists. The collection includes works by the 16th-century artist Andrija Meduli?, architectural drawings by Johann Bernhard Fischer von Erlach from the 18th century, and many more modern Croatian artists.[3] The Map Collection The Collection assembles, preserves, processes and makes available all types of maps and atlases. Special attention is given to older and more valuable cartographic items, national cartographic materials and the control of legal deposit procedures. The members of the Collection supply users with information in the field of cartography and provide professional assistance for researchers and students in the preparation and writing of their papers, articles or theses. The Collection comprises nearly 42,000 maps, almost 1,500 atlases, and approximately 600 books in the accompanying reference library.[4] The Music Collection The Collection assembles, processes, archives and makes available sheet music, the rich legacy of Croatian composers as well as a large stock of sound recordings. All materials in the collection are available to the users of the National and University Library in Zagreb and they include nearly 17,000 printed music scores, 3,000 manuscript scores, 23,600 gramophone records, 5,700 cassettes, and 7,447 CDs.[5] Reading rooms collections[edit] Reference Collection LIS Collection Doctoral and Master’s Theses Collection Homeland War Book Collection Official Publications Collection Historical overview[edit] In 1607 the Jesuit order established itself in Zagreb. In addition to founding a grammar school, the Jesuits founded a Jesuit College with an accompanying library. By 1645 the library was housed in a special hall, it had a librarian and rules were established regarding the preservation and lending of books. In 1669 the Jesuit College acquired the status of an Academy by the Charter of King Leopold I and became Academia Zagrabiensis. The library and its holdings were moved into an old building of the abandoned Dominican monastery in today’s 5 St. Catherine’s Square in the Old Town of Zagreb. The Jesuit order was disbanded in 1773. The College continued with its provisional activities until 1776, when the library became part of the Royal Zagreb Academy of Sciences (Regia Academia Zagrabiensis) as an academy of law, philosophy and theology. The following year the library received a bequest containing historical material from the clergyman Adam Baltazar Kr?eli?, with a stipulation that this material be made available to the wider public. As a result of legal deposit regulations introduced in 1816 bearing on the University of Pest, the library's national importance began to increase. Such legal deposit regulations were extended to the whole territory of Croatia and Slavonia in 1837. Antun Kukuljevi?, politician and the founder of the Croatian educational system, changed the name of the library to the Latin name, Nationalis Academica Bibliotheca, highlighting the dual nature of the library’s educational and national functions, which it has jointly developed since then and symbolically preserved in its name to this day. The Franz Josef I Royal University in Zagreb was founded in 1874, and the Academy library (Bibliotheca Regiae Academiae Zagrabiensis) became part of the University and changed its name to University Library, increasing its significance and role in higher education. In 1913 the library with its approximately 110,000 volumes moved from the building of the present-day Rector’s Office into an impressive Art Nouveau edifice located in 21 Marko Maruli? Square, the first building built specifically for the purposes of the library. As it was designed to house 500,000 volumes, its premises soon become inadequate for the library’s 2,500,000 volumes – books, journals, newspapers and the particularly valuable items of the library’s special collections.[6] A new library building, the Pantheon of the Croatian Book, was commissioned: its foundation stone was laid in 1988 and the building opened on 28 May 1995 as part of the celebration of the fifth anniversary of Croatia’s independence. This modern edifice was designed by Croatian architects Velimir Neidhardt, Marijan Hrži?, Zvonimir Krznari? and Davor Mance.[6] References[edit] ^ Aleksandar Stip?evi? (2007). The National and University Library in Zagreb 1607-2007: On the Occasion of the 400th Anniversary. National and University Library. ^ "Manuscripts and Old Books Collection". National and University Library in Zagreb Web Site. Retrieved 2018-01-04. ^ "Print Collection". National and University Library in Zagreb Web Site. Retrieved 2018-01-04. ^ "Map Collection". National and University Library in Zagreb Web Site. Retrieved 2018-01-04. ^ "Music Collection". National and University Library in Zagreb Web Site. Retrieved 2018-01-04. ^ a b David H. Stam (8 January 2016). International Dictionary of Library Histories. Routledge. p. 457. ISBN 978-1-136-77785-1. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to National and University Library in Zagreb. Official website v t e Zagreb History Timeline Golden Bull of 1242 Gradec Kaptol Krvavi most 1880 earthquake 1895 Emperor Franz Joseph visit Zagreb in World War II 1995 rocket attacks 1995–97 Zagreb crisis 2020 earthquake Mayors Districts Brezovica ?rnomerec Donja Dubrava Donji grad Gornja Dubrava Gornji Grad–Medveš?ak Maksimir Novi Zagreb-istok Novi Zagreb-zapad Peš?enica-Žitnjak Podsljeme Podsused-Vrap?e Sesvete Stenjevec Trešnjevka-jug Trešnjevka-sjever Trnje Buildings and landmarks 1 Ilica Street Banski dvori Cibona Tower Esplanade Zagreb Hotel General Post Office Kallina House Lotrš?ak Tower Medvedgrad Meštrovi? Pavilion Mirogoj Cemetery National Home palace Nine Views Old City Hall Rudolf barracks Stone Gate Villa Rebar Zagrep?anka Sky Office Tower Adriatic Bridge Homeland Bridge HOTO Tower Eurotower Squares and streets Ban Jela?i? Square British Square Croatian Nobles Square Dolac Market Eugen Kvaternik Square Ilica Street Krvavi Most Lenuci Horseshoe Nova Ves Oktogon Republic of Croatia Square Nikola Šubi? Zrinski Square St. Mark's Square Tkal?i?eva Street Square of the Victims of Fascism Parks, gardens and recreation Lenuci Horseshoe Nikola Šubi? Zrinski Square Maksimir Park Botanical Garden Bundek Jarun Medvednica Zagreb Zoo Places of worship Zagreb Cathedral St. Mark's Church St. Catherine's Church Orthodox Cathedral Zagreb Mosque Zagreb Synagogue Evangelical Church Greek Catholic Co-cathedral of Saints Cyril and Methodius Basilica of the Heart of Jesus Church of Saint Blaise Culture Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb Gavella Drama Theatre Vatroslav Lisinski Concert Hall National and University Library Zagreb Philharmonic Orchestra The Cravat Regiment Galleries and museums Archaeological Museum Art Pavilion Croatian History Museum Croatian Museum of Naïve Art Croatian Natural History Museum Croatian Railway Museum Ethnographic Museum Ferdinand Budicki Automobile Museum Glyptotheque Klovi?evi Dvori Gallery Lauba Mimara Museum Modern Gallery Museum of Arts and Crafts Museum of Broken Relationships Museum of Contemporary Art Strossmayer Gallery Technical Museum Zagreb City Museum Education High schools in Zagreb Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts University of Zagreb Academies: Dramatic Art Fine Arts Music Faculties: Architecture Chemical Engineering Dental Medicine Economics and Business Electrical Engineering and Computing Geodesy Humanities and Social Sciences Medicine Science Teacher Education Sports venues Arena Zagreb Dom Sportova Dražen Petrovi? Basketball Hall Maksimir Stadium Kranj?evi?eva Stadium ŠRC Sesvete Stadium NŠC Stjepan Spaji? Stadium Transport Zagreb International Airport Zagreb Glavni kolodvor Zagreb Zapadni railway station Funicular Trams Commuter Rail Metro (proposed) Events Animafest Zagreb INmusic Festival Music Biennale Zagreb Zagreb Film Festival ZagrebDox Zagreb Fair Subversive Festival Sport events Golden Spin Hanžekovi? Memorial Snow Queen Trophy Zagreb Indoors Category:Zagreb v t e National libraries of Europe Sovereign states Albania Andorra Armenia Austria Azerbaijan Belarus Belgium Bosnia and Herzegovina Bulgaria Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Estonia Finland France Georgia Germany Greece Hungary Iceland Ireland Italy Kazakhstan Latvia Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Malta Moldova Monaco Montenegro Netherlands North Macedonia Norway Poland Portugal Romania Russia San Marino Serbia Slovakia Slovenia Spain Sweden Switzerland Turkey Ukraine United Kingdom Vatican City States with limited recognition Abkhazia Artsakh Kosovo Northern Cyprus South Ossetia Transnistria Dependencies and other entities Åland Faroe Islands Gibraltar Guernsey Isle of Man Jersey Svalbard Other entities European Union v t e University of Zagreb Faculties Faculty of Architecture Faculty of Chemical Engineering and Technology Faculty of Economics and Business Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing Faculty of Geodesy Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences Faculty of Law Faculty of Metallurgy Faculty of Organization and Informatics Faculty of Science Faculty of Teacher Education School of Dental Medicine School of Medicine Academies Academy of Dramatic Art Academy of Fine Arts Academy of Music Other related articles 2009 student protests in Croatia Mladost (sports society) National and University Library in Zagreb SDEWES Centre University Computing Centre Zagreb Botanical Garden v t e Authority control files AAG • ACM DL • ADB • AGSA • autores.uy • AWR • BALaT • BIBSYS • Bildindex • BNC • BNE • BNF • Botanist • BPN • CANTIC • CiNii • DAAO • DBLP • DSI • FNZA • GND • HDS • World Athletics • ICIA • ISNI • Joconde • KulturNav • LCCN • LIR • LNB • Léonore • MusicBrainz • MGP • NARA • NCL • NDL • NGV • NKC • NLA • NLG • NLI • NLK • NLP • NLR • NSK • NTA • ORCID • PIC • ResearcherID • RERO • RKD • RKDimages ID • RSL • ICCU • SELIBR • SIKART • SNAC • SUDOC • S2AuthorId • TA98 • TDV?A • TE • TePapa • TH • TLS • Trove • ULAN • US Congress • VIAF • WorldCat Identities Authority control BNF: cb12106951f (data) GND: 127698-0 ISNI: 0000 0001 2253 8088 LCCN: n81056539 NKC: kn20020520004 SELIBR: 289017 SUDOC: 029443261 VIAF: 124024049 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n81056539 Coordinates: 45°47?48?N 15°58?39?E? / ?45.79667°N 15.97750°E? / 45.79667; 15.97750 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=National_and_University_Library_in_Zagreb&oldid=943534189" Categories: 1607 establishments in Europe Academic libraries in Croatia Buildings and structures in Zagreb Culture in Zagreb Library buildings completed in 1995 National libraries Public libraries University of Zagreb Hidden categories: Articles lacking in-text citations from December 2017 All articles lacking in-text citations Articles lacking reliable references from August 2015 All articles lacking reliable references Articles with multiple maintenance issues Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on Wikidata Articles containing Croatian-language text Commons category link is on Wikidata Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with NKC identifiers Wikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiers Wikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using the Kartographer extension Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ?????????? Deutsch Español Esperanto ????? Français ??? ??????? Hrvatski Italiano ????? ??????? ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska ?????????? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 2 March 2020, at 11:42 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Matthew@Garfield.ca
