Open Rights Group - Wikipedia Open Rights Group From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search "ORG" redirects here. For other uses, see ORG (disambiguation). This article relies too much on references to primary sources. Please improve this by adding secondary or tertiary sources. (July 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) ‹ The template Infobox organization is being considered for merging. › Open Rights Group Abbreviation ORG Formation 2005, UK Type Non-profit organisation Purpose Law, Advocacy, Digital Rights Headquarters London, England Location United Kingdom Staff 7 Website openrightsgroup.org The Open Rights Group (ORG) is a UK-based organisation that works to preserve digital rights and freedoms by campaigning on digital rights issues and by fostering a community of grassroots activists. It campaigns on numerous issues including mass surveillance, internet filtering and censorship, and intellectual property rights. Contents 1 History 2 Work 3 Goals 4 Areas of interest 4.1 Access to knowledge 4.2 Free speech and censorship 4.3 Government and democracy 4.4 Privacy, surveillance and censorship 5 Structure 6 Advisory council and board of directors 7 ORGCON 8 See also 9 References 10 External links History[edit] Open Rights Group poster The organisation was started by Danny O'Brien, Cory Doctorow, Ian Brown, Rufus Pollock, James Cronin, Stefan Magdalinski, Louise Ferguson and Suw Charman after a panel discussion at Open Tech 2005.[1] O'Brien created a pledge on PledgeBank, placed on 23 July 2005, with a deadline of 25 December 2005: "I will create a standing order of 5 pounds per month to support an organisation that will campaign for digital rights in the UK but only if 1,000 other people will too." The pledge reached 1000 people on 29 November 2005.[2][3] The Open Rights Group was launched at a "sell-out" meeting in Soho, London.[4][5] Work[edit] The group has made submissions to the All Party Internet Group (APIG) inquiry into digital rights management[6][7] and the Gowers Review of Intellectual Property.[8][9] The group was honoured in the 2008 Privacy International Big Brother Awards alongside No2ID, Liberty, Genewatch UK and others, as a recognition of their efforts to keep state and corporate mass surveillance at bay.[10] In 2010 the group worked with 38 Degrees[11] to oppose the introduction of the Digital Economy Act, which was passed in April 2010.[12] Goals[edit] To collaborate with other digital rights and related organisations. To nurture a community of campaigning volunteers, from grassroots activists to technical and legal experts. To preserve and extend traditional civil liberties in the digital world. To provide a media clearinghouse, connecting journalists with experts and activists. To raise awareness in the media of digital rights abuses. Areas of interest[edit] Play media Cory Doctorow talks at ORGCon 2012 about the UK Government's Communications Data Bill 2012 The organisation, though focused on the impact of digital technology on the liberty of UK citizens, operates with an apparently wide range of interests within that category. Its interests include:[13][14] Access to knowledge[edit] Copyright Creative Commons Free and open source software The public domain Crown copyright Digital Restrictions Management Software patents Free speech and censorship[edit] Internet filtering Right to parody s. 127 Communications Act 2003 Government and democracy[edit] Electronic voting Freedom of information legislation Privacy, surveillance and censorship[edit] Automatic Vehicle Tracking Communications data retention Identity management Net Neutrality NHS patients’ medical database Police DNA Records RFID Structure[edit] ORG has a paid staff,[15] whose members include: Jim Killock (Executive Director) Javier Ruiz Diaz (Campaigner) Former staff include Suw Charman-Anderson and Becky Hogge, both Executive Directors, e-voting coordinator Jason Kitcat, campaigner Peter Bradwell, grassroots campaigner Katie Sutton and administrator Katerina Maniadaki.[16] The group's patron is Neil Gaiman.[17] As of February 2011 they have 22,000 supporters of which 1,400 are paying contributors[18] Advisory council and board of directors[edit] In addition to staff members and volunteers, there is an advisory panel of over thirty members, and a Board of Directors, which oversees the group's work, staff, fundraising and policy.[19] The current board members are: Owen Blacker James Cronin Azmina Dhrodia John Elliott Tom de Grunwald Hannah Little Alec Muffett Brian Parkinson Simon Phipps Christi Scarborough In January 2015, the Open Rights Group announced the formation of a Scottish Advisory Council which will be handling matters relating to Scottish digital rights and campaigns. The Advisory Council is made up of: Alex Stobbart Alistair Davidson Chris Yiu Marco Biagi MSP Mark Leiser Michael Fourman Patrick Harvie MSP From the existing UK Advisory Council: Judith Rauhofer Keith Mitchell Lilian Edwards Wendy Grossman And from the Open Rights Group Board: Milena Popova Owen Blacker Simon Phipps One of the first projects is to raise awareness and opposition to the Scottish Identity Database. ORGCON[edit] ORGCON was the first ever conference dedicated to digital rights in the UK,[20] marketed as "a crash course in digital rights". It was held for the first time in 2010 at City University in London and included keynote talks from Cory Doctorow, politicians and similar pressure groups including Liberty, NO2ID and Big Brother Watch. ORGCON has since been held in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2017, and 2019 where the keynote was given by Edward Snowden. See also[edit] Campaign Against Censorship Censorship in the United Kingdom Internet censorship Open Genealogy Alliance References[edit] ^ Open Tech 2005 schedule Archived 15 December 2005 at the Wayback Machine, 23 July 2005 ^ www.pledgebank.com/rights Archived 29 November 2005 at the Wayback Machine, 23 July 2005 – 25 December 2005 ^ Getting out more Archived 7 August 2011 at the Wayback Machine, Danny O'Brien's blog post floating the idea and advertising the pledge ^ ORG digital rights event update, Open Rights Group blog, 29 November 2005 ^ Invitation to attend ‘Digital Rights in the UK: Your Rights, Your Issues’, Open Rights Group blog, 16 November 2005 ^ MPs in digital downloads warning, BBC News Online, 4 June 2006 ^ ORG submission to the APIG inquiry into DRM, Open Rights Group wiki, 3 January 2006 ^ Chancellor announces intellectual property review Archived 4 December 2005 at the Wayback Machine, HM Treasury press release, 2 December 2005 ^ ORG submission to the Gowers Review, Open Rights Group wiki, 30 May 2006 ^ Big Brother Awards UK 2008, 12 December 2008 ^ "Controversial UK anti-piracy law finally passed". BBC. 5 April 2010. Retrieved 25 September 2010. ^ "Controversial UK anti-piracy law finally passed". Telecoms Europe. Retrieved 9 April 2010. [permanent dead link] ^ ORG issues and interests Archived 9 June 2008 at the Wayback Machine, Open Rights Group website, last visited 30 May 2008 ^ Digital rights issues Archived 5 May 2008 at the Wayback Machine, Open Rights Group website, last visited 30 May 2008 ^ "Open Rights Group Staff". Open Rights Group. Retrieved 13 July 2010. ^ "Open Rights Group Former Staff". Open Rights Group. Archived from the original on 21 June 2011. Retrieved 13 July 2010. ^ "Open Rights Group Patron". Open Rights Group. Retrieved 13 July 2010. ^ Hargreaves Review of IP and Growth Archived 15 May 2011 at the Wayback Machine "Open Rights Group", 22 February 2011 ^ "Open Rights Group Board". Open Rights Group. Retrieved 17 January 2020. ^ "ORGCon: London, July 24 – book now!". BoingBoing. 16 June 2010. Retrieved 13 July 2010. External links[edit] Official website v t e Free-culture and open-source movements Concepts and practices Key concepts Commons-based peer production Crowdsourcing Gratis versus libre Open collaboration Openness Participatory culture Sharism Social peer-to-peer processes Peer-to-peer banking Peer-to-peer carsharing Peer-to-peer lending Peer-to-peer ridesharing Research and science Citizen science Open science Access Notebook science Research Science data Plan S Data, information, and knowledge Free content Knowledge commons Open communication Open knowledge Content Data Communication and learning Media Collaborative writing Democratic media Open publishing Participatory media Peer review Education Open education Educational resources University Admissions Open-door academic policy Journalism Citizen media Citizen journalism and Wiki journalism Open-source journalism Economy, production, and development Products Free and open-source software - FOSS Free/Libre software Open-source software Open-design movement Robotics Open gaming Open-source architecture Open-source hardware Economic principles Gift economy Open innovation Open patent Open standard Sharing economy Politics and governance Open government Open-source governance Organizations Creative Commons Free Software Foundation Open Architecture Network Openmod initiative Open Knowledge International Open Rights Group Open Source Initiative Open Web Foundation P2P Foundation Pirate Party PLOS SPARC Activists Tim Berners-Lee Alexandra Elbakyan Cody Wilson Lawrence Lessig Peter Murray-Rust Douglas Rushkoff Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Matthew H. Todd John Wilbanks Projects and movements DIYbio Free-culture movement Free software movement Open science movement Open Source Ecology Open-source software movement OpenCores OpenWetWare Sci-Hub Tools Licenses Creative Commons GPL Definition Docs Free Cultural Works Free Software Open Open Source Open Data Indices Open educational resources Open music model Open Web movement Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Open_Rights_Group&oldid=941212837" Categories: Access to Knowledge movement Civil liberties advocacy groups Computer law organizations Copyright law organizations Digital media Digital rights management Digital rights organizations Election and voting-related organizations Intellectual property activism Intellectual property organizations Internet in the United Kingdom Internet privacy organizations Internet-related activism Organizations established in 2005 Political advocacy groups in the United Kingdom Politics and technology Politics of the United Kingdom Public domain Radio-frequency identification Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from March 2018 Articles with permanently dead external links Articles lacking reliable references from July 2013 All articles lacking reliable references Use British English from July 2011 Use dmy dates from July 2011 Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia Articles containing video clips Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? Cymraeg Deutsch Nederlands ??? ??????? Edit links This page was last edited on 17 February 2020, at 06:43 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
