Openness - Wikipedia Openness From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Look up openness in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Openness" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (January 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Openness is an overarching concept or philosophy that is characterized by an emphasis on transparency and collaboration.[1][2] That is, openness refers to "accessibility of knowledge, technology and other resources; the transparency of action; the permeability of organisational structures; and the inclusiveness of participation"[2]. Openness can be said to be the opposite of closedness[2], central authority and secrecy[1]. Contents 1 In government 2 In creative works 3 In education 4 In academia 5 In information technology 6 In psychology 7 See also 8 References In government[edit] Main article: Open government Open government is the governing doctrine which holds that citizens have the right to access the documents and proceedings of the government to allow for effective public oversight.[3] Openness in government applies the idea of freedom of information to information held by authorities and holds that citizens should have the right to see the operations and activities of government at work.[4] Since reliable information is requisite for accountability, freedom of access to information about the government supports government accountability and helps protect other necessary rights.[4] In creative works[edit] Main article: Open content Open content and free content both refer to creative works that lack restrictions on how people can use, modify, and distribute them.[5][6][7] The terms derive from open source software and free software, similar concepts that refer specifically to software.[8] In education[edit] Main article: Open education Open education refers to institutional practices and programmatic initiatives that broaden access to the learning and training traditionally offered through formal education systems. By eliminating barriers to entry, open education aids freedom of information by increasing accessibility. Open Education advocates state people from all social classes worldwide have open access to high-quality education and resources. They help eliminate obstacles like high costs, outmoded materials, and legal instruments. These barriers impede collaboration among stakeholders. Cooperation is crucial to open education.[9] The Open Education Consortium claims “Sharing is a fundamental attribute of education. Education means the sharing of knowledge, insights, and information with everybody. It is the foundation of new wisdom, ideas, talents, and understanding.[10]” Open Educational Resources refer to learning materials that educators can improve and modify with permission from their publishers or authors. Creators of OERs are allowed to include a variety of items such as lesson plans, presentation slides, lecture videos, podcasts, worksheets, maps, and images.[11] There are legitimate tools like the Creative Commons’ licenses that students can access and use at liberty. They are allowed to translate and amend these materials.[12] Public school teachers in the USA can share resources they developed as compliance for government-authorized standards in education. One of these is called the Common Core State Standards.[13] Some teachers and school officials have recommended that OERs can help reduce expenses in production and distribution of course materials for primary and secondary institutions. Some teachers and school officials have recommended that OERs can help reduce expenses in production and distribution of course materials for primary and secondary institutions. Certain projects like the OER Commons as storage for open educational resources.[14] In academia[edit] Main article: Open access Open access refers to the practice of allowing peer-reviewed research articles to be available online free of charge and free of most copyright and licensing restrictions.[15] Benefits of this approach include: accelerated discovery and progress as researchers are free to use and build on the findings of others,[16] giving back to the public as much research is paid for with public funds,[17] and greater impact for one's work due to open access articles being accessible to a bigger audience.[18] In information technology[edit] Main article: Code of Openness Openness is a capability provided by an IT system, and it is characterized by interoperability, portability and extensibility. These capabilities are implemented using IT interfaces, standards and the IT architecture. All these are technical aspects of openness. Openness is also based on non-technical aspects, which are related to the partnership between the involved partners (IT customers, IT vendors and/or IT service providers).[19][2] In psychology[edit] In psychology, openness to experience is one of the domains which are used to describe human personality in the Five Factor Model. See also[edit] Accessibility Free association Free content Free software Glasnost Open source Open access: publishing Open innovation Open education Open educational resources Open-design movement Open government Open Knowledge Foundation Open knowledge Open-mindedness Open text Open gaming Open government Open patent Open-source curriculum Open-source governance Open-source hardware Open-source journalism Open-source model Open standard Openness to experience Secrecy: the opposite of openness The Open Definition Transparency: openness in a utilitarian view, economic openness, open economic or politic data, degree of openness, etc. References[edit] Eco, Umberto; Anna Cancogni; David Robey (1989). The Open Work. Harvard University Press. ISBN 9780674639751. Schlagwein, Daniel; Conboy, Kieran; Feller, Joseph; Leimeister, Jan Marco; Morgan, Lorraine (2017). "Openness With and Without Information Technology: A Framework and a Brief History". Journal of Information Technology. 32 (4): 297–305. doi:10.1057/s41265-017-0049-3. ^ a b Peters, Michael. "The Idea of Openness: Open Education and Education for Openness". The Encyclopaedia of Educational Philosophy and Theory. Archived from the original on 1 May 2014. Retrieved 1 May 2014. ^ a b c d Schlagwein, Daniel; Conboy, Kieran; Feller, Joseph; Leimeister, Jan Marco; Morgan, Lorraine (2017). "Openness With and Without Information Technology: A Framework and a Brief History". Journal of Information Technology. 32 (4): 297–305. doi:10.1057/s41265-017-0049-3. ^ Lathrop, Daniel; Ruma, Laurel, eds. (February 2010). Open Government: Transparency, Collaboration and Participation in Practice. O'Reilly Media. ISBN 978-0-596-80435-0. ^ a b Birkinshaw, Patrick. "FREEDOM OF INFORMATION AND OPENNESS: FUNDAMENTAL HUMAN RIGHTS?". Administrative Law Review. 58 (1): 177–218. Retrieved 1 May 2014. ^ "Definition of Free Cultural Works". Retrieved 8 December 2011. ^ Stallman, Richard (November 13, 2008). "Free Software and Free Manuals". Free Software Foundation. Retrieved March 22, 2009. ^ Grossman, Lev (1998-07-18). "New Free License to Cover Content Online". Netly News. Archived from the original on 2000-06-19. Retrieved 2010-01-12. ^ Wiley, David (1998). "Open Content". OpenContent.org. Archived from the original on 1999-01-28. Retrieved 2012-04-17. ^ "What is open education?". Opensource.com. Retrieved 2018-07-06. ^ "The Open Education Consortium". The Global Network for Open Education. Retrieved 2018-07-06. ^ "What are Open Educational Resources (OERs)?". United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Retrieved 2018-07-06. ^ "About The Licenses". Creative Commons. Retrieved 2018-07-06. ^ "About the Standards". Common Core State Standards Initiative. Retrieved 2018-07-06. ^ "OER Commons". OER Commons. Retrieved 2018-07-06. ^ Suber, Peter. "Open Access Overview". Retrieved 1 May 2014. ^ "The Case for Open Access". Retrieved 1 May 2014. ^ Suber, Peter. "The taxpayer argument for open access". SPARC Open Access Newsletter, issue #65. Retrieved 1 May 2014. ^ Harnad, Steven; Tim Brody. "Comparing the Impact of Open Access (OA) vs. Non-OA Articles in the Same Journals". D-Lib Magazine. 10. Retrieved 1 May 2014. ^ Steven, Vettermann. "Code of Openness". CPO. ProSTEP iViP. Retrieved 10 January 2017. This sociology-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Openness&oldid=928665773" Categories: Open content Transparency (behavior) Sociology stubs Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from January 2014 All articles needing additional references All stub articles Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ???????? Français Suomi ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 30 November 2019, at 21:18 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
