Open publishing - Wikipedia Open publishing From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Open publishing" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (October 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) The references in this article are unclear because of a lack of inline citations. Help Wikipedia improve by adding precise citations! (February 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article's use of external links may not follow Wikipedia's policies or guidelines. Please improve this article by removing excessive or inappropriate external links, and converting useful links where appropriate into footnote references. (April 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article may be confusing or unclear to readers. Please help us clarify the article. There might be a discussion about this on the talk page. (April 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Open publishing is a term used by Matthew Arnison in March 2001 to describe the online process of creating text, audio and video news by methods that are fully transparent to the readers.[1] In the early 2000s, the term was widely associated with the online Indymedia network.[1] Contents 1 History 2 Related ideas 3 Examples 4 See also 5 References 6 External links History[edit] The aim of open publishing described by Matthew Arnison was that anybody could contribute a story and see it instantly appear in the pool of stories publicly available.[1] Those stories are filtered as little as possible to help the readers find the stories they want. Readers can see editorial decisions being made by others. They can see how to get involved and help make editorial decisions. If they can think of a better way for the software to help shape editorial decisions, they can copy the software because it is free and open source to change it and start their own site. If they want to redistribute the news, they can, preferably on an open publishing site. Internet sites run on open publishing software allow anyone with Internet access to visit the site and upload content directly without having to penetrate the filters of traditional media. Several fundamental principles tend to inform the organizations and sites dedicated to open publishing, though they do so to varying degrees. These principles include non-hierarchy, public participation, minimal editorial control, and transparency. Related ideas[edit] Arnison's idea of open publishing[1] can be compared to Eric S. Raymond's point of view in the open source software versus free software debate. Given a large enough audience of peers, readers and/or commentators, supporters of open publishing hope or expect that almost all problematic content will quickly be noticed, highlighted and fixed. Linus's law could in this be context be described as Arnison's Law, reworded as, "Given enough eyeballs, problematic content is shallow". The term "open publishing" is intended to be much more open than the more restricted idea of open access publishing, in which the publishing of material organized in such a way that there is no financial or other barrier to the reader, but there is no claim for transparency in the methods and procedures of publishing. In other words, open publishing is open access, but open access publishing is only sometimes "open publishing". Examples[edit] Online historical and existing networks typically associated with open publishing include the Independent Media Center network, Kuro5hin, Slashdot, Wikipedia and Wikinews. See also[edit] Collaborative writing Fair Access to Science and Technology Research Act, U.S. House of Representatives Free content Open access Open content Open source journalism Participatory economics Participatory journalism Peer review References[edit] ^ a b c d Arnison, Matthew (2003-06-09). "Open publishing is the same as free software". Purple Bark. Archived from the original on 2017-12-25. External links[edit] Hebrew article on Open Publishing regarding Indymedia Israel. Center for Communication & Civic Engagenment on Open Publishing Analysis: The Rise Of Open Media Three Proposals for Open Publishing The Open Publishing Lab at the Rochester Institute of Technology - A research lab that develops open source applications for open publishing. Open Access Statement Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Open_publishing&oldid=923585465" Categories: Publishing Citizen media Collective intelligence New media Hidden categories: Articles lacking sources from October 2014 All articles lacking sources Articles lacking in-text citations from February 2013 All articles lacking in-text citations Wikipedia external links cleanup from April 2018 Wikipedia spam cleanup from April 2018 Wikipedia articles needing clarification from April 2018 All Wikipedia articles needing clarification Articles with multiple maintenance issues Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Français ??? Bahasa Indonesia ????? Nederlands Edit links This page was last edited on 29 October 2019, at 13:52 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Henry@George.ca
