Open-source journalism - Wikipedia Open-source journalism From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search It has been suggested that this article be merged with Wiki journalism. (Discuss) Proposed since June 2019. Open-source journalism, a close cousin to citizen journalism or participatory journalism, is a term coined in the title of a 1999 article by Andrew Leonard of Salon.com.[1] Although the term was not actually used in the body text of Leonard's article, the headline encapsulated a collaboration between users of the internet technology blog Slashdot and a writer for Jane's Intelligence Review. The writer, Johan J. Ingles-le Nobel, had solicited feedback on a story about cyberterrorism from Slashdot readers, and then re-wrote his story based on that feedback and compensated the Slashdot writers whose information and words he used.[2][3] This early usage of the phrase clearly implied the paid use, by a mainstream journalist, of copyright-protected posts made in a public online forum. It thus referred to the standard journalistic techniques of news gathering and fact checking, and reflected a similar term—open source intelligence—that was in use from 1992 in military intelligence circles. The meaning of the term has since changed and broadened, and it is now commonly used to describe forms of innovative publishing of online journalism, rather than the sourcing of news stories by a professional journalist. The term open-source journalism is often used to describe a spectrum on online publications: from various forms of semi-participatory online community journalism (as exemplified by projects such as the copyright newspaper NorthWest Voice),[4] through to genuine open-source news publications (such as the Spanish 20 minutos, and Wikinews). A relatively new development is the use of convergent polls, allowing editorials and opinions to be submitted and voted on. Over time, the poll converges on the most broadly accepted editorials and opinions. Examples of this are Opinionrepublic.com[5] and Digg. Scholars are also experimenting with the process of journalism itself, such as open-sourcing the story skeletons that journalists build [6]. Contents 1 Usage 2 See also 3 References 4 External links Usage[edit] At first sight, it would appear to many that blogs fit within the current meaning of open-source journalism. Yet the term's use of open source clearly currently implies the meaning as given to it by the open-source software movement; where the source code of programs is published openly to allow anyone to locate and fix mistakes or add new functions. Anyone may also freely take and re-use that source code to create new works, within set license parameters. Given certain legal traditions of copyright, blogs may not be open source in the sense that one is prohibited from taking the blogger's words or visitor comments and re-using them in another form without breaching the author's copyright or making payment. However, many blogs draw on such material through quotations (often with links to the original material), and follow guidelines more comparable to research than media production. Creative Commons is a licensing arrangement that is useful as a legal workaround for such an inherent structural dilemma intrinsic to blogging, and its fruition is manifest in the common practices of referencing another published article, image or piece of information via a hyperlink. Insofar as blog works can explicitly inform readers and other participants of the "openness" of their text via Creative Commons, they not only publish openly, but allow anyone to locate, critique, summarize etc. their works. See also[edit] Civic journalism Citizen journalism Collaborative writing Indymedia Kuro5hin, a blog with an open peer review process History Commons Open publishing Peer review References[edit] ^ Andrew Leonard (8 October 2004). "Open-source journalism". Salon.com. ^ Johan J Ingles-le Nobel; Robin Miller (4 October 2004). "Jane's Intelligence Review Needs Your Help With Cyberterrorism". Slashdot. ^ Johan J Ingles-le Nobel; Robin Miller (7 October 2004). "Jane's Intelligence Review Lauds Slashdot Readers as Cyberterrorism Experts". Slashdot. ^ Northwestvoice.com ^ Opinionrepublic.com ^ Novin, A., Secko, D. (25 November 2012). "Debate Cited: A First Exploration of a Web Application to Enhance the Production of Science Journalism Students". Journalism Interest Group, CCA/Groupe d'Intérêt en Journalisme. 2012. Retrieved 8 September 2016. External links[edit] Open Source Journalism: Journalism as a network v t e Journalism Roles Journalist Reporter Editor Columnist Copy editor Meteorologist News presenter Photographer Political commentator Blogger Profession News News writing style Ethics code of ethics Objectivity Values Attribution Defamation Editorial independence Journalism school Areas Arts Business Data-driven Entertainment Environment Fashion Global Medicine Politics Science Sports Technical Trade Traffic Video games Weather World Genres Access Advocacy Analytic Blogging Broadcast Churnalism Citizen Civic Collaborative Community Data Database Embedded Gonzo Immersion Interpretive Investigative Literary Muckraking Narrative New Journalism Non-profit journalism Online Opinion Peace Photojournalism Scientific Visual Watchdog Social impact Fake news Fourth Estate Freedom of the press Hostile media effect Infotainment Media bias Public relations Yellow journalism News media Newspapers Magazines TV and radio Internet News agencies Alternative media List of journalism articles v t e Free-culture and open-source movements Concepts and practices Key concepts Commons-based peer production Crowdsourcing Gratis versus libre Open collaboration Openness Participatory culture Sharism Social peer-to-peer processes Peer-to-peer banking Peer-to-peer carsharing Peer-to-peer lending Peer-to-peer ridesharing Research and science Citizen science Open science Access Notebook science Research Science data Plan S Data, information, and knowledge Free content Knowledge commons Open communication Open knowledge Content Data Communication and learning Media Collaborative writing Democratic media Open publishing Participatory media Peer review Education Open education Educational resources University Admissions Open-door academic policy Journalism Citizen media Citizen journalism and Wiki journalism Open-source journalism Economy, production, and development Products Free and open-source software - FOSS Free/Libre software Open-source software Open-design movement Robotics Open gaming Open-source architecture Open-source hardware Economic principles Gift economy Open innovation Open patent Open standard Sharing economy Politics and governance Open government Open-source governance Organizations Creative Commons Free Software Foundation Open Architecture Network Openmod initiative Open Knowledge International Open Rights Group Open Source Initiative Open Web Foundation P2P Foundation Pirate Party PLOS SPARC Activists Tim Berners-Lee Alexandra Elbakyan Cody Wilson Lawrence Lessig Peter Murray-Rust Douglas Rushkoff Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Matthew H. Todd John Wilbanks Projects and movements DIYbio Free-culture movement Free software movement Open science movement Open Source Ecology Open-source software movement OpenCores OpenWetWare Sci-Hub Tools Licenses Creative Commons GPL Definition Docs Free Cultural Works Free Software Open Open Source Open Data Indices Open educational resources Open music model Open Web movement Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Open-source_journalism&oldid=947786237" Categories: Online journalism Hidden categories: Articles to be merged from June 2019 All articles to be merged Use dmy dates from April 2013 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? Edit links This page was last edited on 28 March 2020, at 13:37 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
