Open-door academic policy - Wikipedia Open-door academic policy From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search An open-door academic policy, or open-door policy, is a policy if a university accepting to enroll students without asking for evidence of previous education, experience, or references. Usually, payment of the academic fees (or financial support) is all that is required to enroll. Universities may not employ the open-door policy for all their courses, and those that have a universal open-door policy where all courses have no entry requirements are called open universities. The policy is sometimes characterized as a part of an educational revolution.[1] From the dictionary meaning of the open-door policy, which is the idea of granting access to all those who want access,[2] a similar idea can be drawn in terms of education.[3] According to Deepa Rao, the open-door academic policy is one of the main ways in which adult learners become a part of university/college life.[4] The recognized demand for post-secondary education made many institutions commit strongly to the policy, but many concealed limitations in the policy can prevent some from securing a degree.[4] Contents 1 History 2 Pros and cons 3 Eligibility 4 Limiting factors 5 Notable institutions with open-door policies 6 See also 7 References History[edit] From the beginning of universities and colleges in western countries, during the early parts of the 20th century, higher education was supplied in large amounts. During these times the acceptance of all varieties of students was very limited, yet this approach was coming under pressure due to an increase in the industrial and business industry's demand for highly trained and educated employees.[5] The Civil Rights Movement during the 1960s and the Baby Boom in the 1940s-1950s, also presented further reasoning for the implementation of the open-door academic policy.[5] In response to these pressures, the colleges and universities lowered standards of admission and offered financial support to try and win back the students. This soon turned into the open-door policy, which became a successful and well used form of recruiting students.[6] Pros and cons[edit] Positively, the open-door academic policy has enabled a step into higher education such as a bachelor's degree, to those who had been restricted access to these opportunities due to social or economic factors.[5] The policy has also created a sufficient amount of well trained students to fulfill the demand for educated employees for the industrial and business industries.[5] However, despite its benefits the open-door academic policy has faced its criticism. The graduation rates of colleges are closely tied to their admissions policies. Six years after beginning a four-year program, an average of 60% of students nationwide will have graduated. However, that rate varies from 89% at colleges that accept less than one-quarter of applicants to 36% at those with an open admissions policy.[7] Additionally, the offering of financial support has created a heated issue for higher education due to the requirement for students fees which enable the universities and colleges to stay current with changing technology, employment needs and the fluctuating student population.[5] Eligibility[edit] The following list indicates the criteria for applicants looking to apply at an open-door university or college: Non-traditional students, for example those who have delayed enrollment (those who did not go straight into university education after completing secondary education)[4] On average, between the ages of 22-29.[4] Usually accompanied by an adult diploma or GED, in place of a normal high school diploma.[4] This list of criteria will differ depending on the university or college that is being applied for, this is just a general conclusion from one college.[4] Limiting factors[edit] Limiting factors restrict the student acceptance rate due to the following situations: Funding cuts, which can be supported by further funding. For example, funding through the school e.g. school fairs, raffles etc. Budget rearrangement is also a consideration in terms of allocating a smaller portion of funding for the open-door academic policy courses. Lack of teaching staff, teachers resources, classroom space. Over-subscription. Legal terms restricting access for some students. Waiting lists. Prioritizing of students who have submitted. Increase in education levels of students who submit.[5] Notable institutions with open-door policies[edit] The open-door academic policy's requirements can differ not only between different countries, but also between sub-national jurisdictions (states, provinces, regions). The following is a list of some universities and colleges around the world that have an open-door academic policy: Athabasca University (Canada) Delta College (United States) SIM University (Singapore) Open University (United Kingdom) Open Universities Australia (Australia) See also[edit] College admissions in the United States Cooling out Open admissions Transfer admissions in the United States University and college admissions References[edit] ^ Ng, Pedro Pak-Tao (1980). "Open-Door Education in Chinese Communes: Rationale, Problems, and Recent Changes". Modern China. 6 (3): 327–356. JSTOR 189007. ^ http://www.ldoceonline.com/dictionary/open-door-policy ^ "open-door policy - Definition from Longman English Dictionary Online". www.ldoceonline.com. Retrieved 2016-05-03. ^ a b c d e f "NCSALL: The Open Door Policy". www.ncsall.net. Retrieved 2016-05-03. ^ a b c d e f Hendrick, Ruth Zimmer; Hightower, William H.; Gregory, Dennis E. (2006). "State Funding Limitations and Community College Open Door Policy: Conflicting Priorities?". Community College Journal of Research and Practice. 30 (8): 627–640. doi:10.1080/10668920600746078. ^ Cohen & Brawer, A & F (2003). The American Community College. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. ^ "What are the graduation rates for students obtaining a bachelor's degree?". Fast Facts. National Center for Education Statistics. May 2016. Retrieved 2 November 2016. v t e Free-culture and open-source movements Concepts and practices Key concepts Commons-based peer production Crowdsourcing Gratis versus libre Open collaboration Openness Participatory culture Sharism Social peer-to-peer processes Peer-to-peer banking Peer-to-peer carsharing Peer-to-peer lending Peer-to-peer ridesharing Research and science Citizen science Open science Access Notebook science Research Science data Plan S Data, information, and knowledge Free content Knowledge commons Open communication Open knowledge Content Data Communication and learning Media Collaborative writing Democratic media Open publishing Participatory media Peer review Education Open education Educational resources University Admissions Open-door academic policy Journalism Citizen media Citizen journalism and Wiki journalism Open-source journalism Economy, production, and development Products Free and open-source software - FOSS Free/Libre software Open-source software Open-design movement Robotics Open gaming Open-source architecture Open-source hardware Economic principles Gift economy Open innovation Open patent Open standard Sharing economy Politics and governance Open government Open-source governance Organizations Creative Commons Free Software Foundation Open Architecture Network Openmod initiative Open Knowledge International Open Rights Group Open Source Initiative Open Web Foundation P2P Foundation Pirate Party PLOS SPARC Activists Tim Berners-Lee Alexandra Elbakyan Cody Wilson Lawrence Lessig Peter Murray-Rust Douglas Rushkoff Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Matthew H. Todd John Wilbanks Projects and movements DIYbio Free-culture movement Free software movement Open science movement Open Source Ecology Open-source software movement OpenCores OpenWetWare Sci-Hub Tools Licenses Creative Commons GPL Definition Docs Free Cultural Works Free Software Open Open Source Open Data Indices Open educational resources Open music model Open Web movement Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Open-door_academic_policy&oldid=932238060" Categories: University and college admissions Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Português ??? Edit links This page was last edited on 24 December 2019, at 11:01 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
