Open Content Alliance - Wikipedia Open Content Alliance From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Open Content Alliance logo The Open Content Alliance (OCA) was a consortium of organizations contributing to a permanent, publicly accessible archive of digitized texts. Its creation was announced in October 2005 by Yahoo!, the Internet Archive, the University of California, the University of Toronto and others.[1] Scanning for the Open Content Alliance was administered by the Internet Archive, which also provided permanent storage and access through its website. The OCA was, in part, a response to Google Book Search, which was announced in October 2004. OCA's approach to seeking permission from copyright holders differed significantly from that of Google Book Search. OCA digitized copyrighted works only after asking and receiving permission from the copyright holder ("opt-in"). By contrast, Google Book Search digitized copyrighted works unless explicitly told not to do so ("opt-out"), and contends that digitizing for the purposes of indexing is fair use. Microsoft had a special relationship with the Open Content Alliance until May 2008. Microsoft joined the Open Content Alliance in October 2005 as part of its Live Book Search project.[2] However, in May 2008 Microsoft announced it would be ending the Live Book Search project and no longer funding the scanning of books through the Internet Archive.[3] Microsoft removed any contractual restrictions on the content they had scanned and they relinquished the scanning equipment to their digitization partners and libraries to continue digitization programs.[3] Between about 2006 and 2008 Microsoft sponsored the scanning of over 750,000 books, 300,000 of which are now part of the Internet Archive's on-line collections. Contents 1 Opposition to Google Book Settlement 2 Contributors 3 See also 4 References 5 Further reading 6 External links Opposition to Google Book Settlement[edit] Brewster Kahle, a founder of the Open Content Alliance, actively opposed the proposed Google Book Settlement until its defeat in March 2011. Contributors[edit] The following are contributors to the OCA: Adobe Systems Incorporated Boston Library Consortium Boston Public Library The Bancroft Library The British Library Columbia University Libraries Emory University Library European Archive Getty Research Institute HP Labs Indiana University Libraries Internet Archive Johns Hopkins University Libraries McMaster University Memorial University of Newfoundland Missouri Botanical Garden MSN The National Archives National Writers Union[4] Natural History Museum, London National Library of Australia O'Reilly Media Perseus Project Prelinger Library and Prelinger Archives Research Libraries Group Rice University Libraries San Francisco Public Library Simon Fraser University Library Smithsonian Institution Libraries Universidad Francisco Marroquín, Guatemala University of Alberta Libraries University of British Columbia Library University of California Libraries University of Chicago University of Georgia University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill University of Ottawa University of Pittsburgh University of Texas University of Toronto University of Virginia Library Washington University William and Flora Hewlett Foundation Xerox Corporation Yahoo! York University Library Biodiversity Heritage Library, a cooperative project of: American Museum of Natural History Harvard University Botany Libraries Harvard University, Ernst Mayr Library of the Museum of Comparative Zoology Missouri Botanical Garden Natural History Museum, London The New York Botanical Garden Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew Smithsonian Institution Libraries See also[edit] Digital library Google Book Search Internet Archive List of digital library projects Project Gutenberg Universal library Open catalogue References[edit] ^ Katie Hafner (October 3, 2005). "Open Content Alliance". The New York Times. Retrieved 2013-10-23. ^ Katie Hafner (2005-10-26). "Microsoft to Offer Online Book-Content Searches". The New York Times. Retrieved 2013-10-23. ^ a b "Book search winding down", Live Search Blog. Official announcement from Microsoft. Last accessed May 23, 2008. ^ "National Writers Union Joins Open Book Alliance". Nwuboston.org. 2009-09-04. Archived from the original on 2009-09-07. Retrieved 2013-10-23. Further reading[edit] This section's use of external links may not follow Wikipedia's policies or guidelines. Please improve this article by removing excessive or inappropriate external links, and converting useful links where appropriate into footnote references. (August 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) News Articles Scan This Book! (May 14, 2006 New York Times) Microsoft To Join Book-Search Alliance (October 26, 2005 International Herald Tribune] In Challenge to Google, Yahoo Will Scan Books (October 3, 2005 New York Times article) Building the Universal Library (May 18, 2006 Search Engine Watch) Google's Moon Shot: The quest for the universal library February 5, 2007 article in The New Yorker Blog Posts The Universal Library and Other Book Digitization Projects (Search Engine Watch) Yahoo Search announcing Open Content Alliance External links[edit] "Opencontentalliance.org". Archived from the original on November 13, 2016. (official website) Video from Open Content Alliance Launch, Oct 2005 v t e Internet Archive Universal access to all knowledge Projects Wayback Machine PetaBox Open Library NASA Images Open Content Alliance Archive-It SFlan Partners & Collaborators Bibliotheca Alexandrina Library of Congress American Libraries Canadian Libraries Biodiversity Heritage Library Sloan Foundation Collections Lists of Internet Archive's collections Image NASA Images USGS Maps Texts American Libraries Canadian Libraries Children's Library RECAP US Federal Court Documents Microfilm US Government Documents Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London Collected texts of Simon Schwartzman Audio Live Music Archive LibriVox Video NASA Images FedFlix Democracy Now! Marion Stokes The Internet Archive Software Collection Open Educational Resources People Brewster Kahle David Rumsey Rick Prelinger Jason Scott Software Heritrix Authority control LCCN: n2005085557 VIAF: 133904598 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n2005085557 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Open_Content_Alliance&oldid=922398689" Categories: Online archives Open content projects Organizations established in 2005 Hidden categories: Wikipedia external links cleanup from August 2012 Wikipedia spam cleanup from August 2012 Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Deutsch ??? Hrvatski Italiano ??? ??????? Suomi ?????????? Edit links This page was last edited on 21 October 2019, at 21:54 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
William@Levi.org
