Open gaming - Wikipedia Open gaming From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Open gaming is a movement within the tabletop role-playing game (RPG) industry with superficial similarities to the open source software movement.[1] The key aspect is that copyright holders license their works under public copyright licenses that permit others to make copies or create derivative works of the game. A number of role-playing game publishers have joined the open gaming movement, largely as a result of the release of the original System Reference Document (SRD) by Wizards of the Coast, which consisted of the core rules of Dungeons & Dragons 3rd edition. Open gaming has also been popular among small press role-playing game and supplement authors. Contents 1 History 1.1 The Fudge Legal Notice 1.2 Dominion Rules and Circe 1.3 Open Game License 1.3.1 Open Gaming Foundation 1.4 Reaction 2 Adoption 3 Approved licences 4 Open games 5 Retro-clone systems 6 References 7 External links History[edit] The use of the term open gaming began with the publication of the original SRD and the simultaneous release of the Open Game License (OGL). However, role-playing games had been licensed under open and free content licenses before this.[1] The Fudge Legal Notice[edit] The Fudge role-playing game system was created in 1992 by Steffan O'Sullivan with extensive help from the rec.games.design community. The name stood for "Freeform Universal Donated Game Engine" until Steffan O'Sullivan changed 'donated' to 'DIY' in 1995. One reason why Fudge succeeded is that the author released it under the "FUDGE Legal Notice", a license that removed most restrictions on non-commercial use. However the FUDGE Legal Notice (more commonly known as simply "the Fudge license") was never intended to cover any work other than its eponymous role-playing game. Derivative works which were to be distributed for a fee required written permission from Fudge's author, Steffan O'Sullivan. The details of the Fudge Legal Notice were modified and expanded from time to time as O'Sullivan updated his work, but the essential elements of the license remained unchanged. The 1993 FUDGE Legal Notice allowed reprinting of the Fudge rules, including in otherwise commercial works, as long as certain conditions were met. The 1995 FUDGE Legal Notice permitted the creation of derivative works for personal use and for publication in periodicals. In March 2004, Grey Ghost Games acquired the copyright of Fudge, and on April 6, 2005, they released a version of Fudge under the Open Game License, making it open for commercial use. Dominion Rules and Circe[edit] The phrase "opensource roleplaying" was used as early as 1999 by the Dominion Rules role-playing system, the license of which permitted supplementary material to be written for its rules. Another "open" system was the Circe role-playing system, published by the WorldForge project under the GNU Free Documentation License. Open Game License[edit] Despite Fudge and other games, the open gaming movement did not gain widespread recognition within the role-playing game industry until 2000, when Wizards of the Coast (WotC) published portions of the 3rd Edition of Dungeons & Dragons as the System Reference Document under the Open Game License. This move was driven by Ryan Dancey then Brand Manager for WotC, who drafted the Open Game License and first coined the term "open gaming" with respect to role-playing games. Open Gaming Foundation[edit] The Open Gaming Foundation (OGF) was founded by Ryan Dancey as an independent forum for discussion of open gaming among the members of the fledgling open gaming movement. The OGF consisted of a web site and a series of mailing lists, including the OGF-L list (for general discussion of open gaming licensing issues) and the OGF-d20-L list (for discussion of d20-specific issues). The most common criticism of the OGF was that it was primarily a venue for publicizing Wizards of the Coast. Ryan Dancey was an employee of WotC, and discussion on the mailing lists tended to focus on d20 and the OGL (both owned by WotC) rather than on open gaming in general. The OGF maintained a definition of an "open game license" while it was active, with two criteria: “1. The license must allow game rules and materials that use game rules to be freely copied, modified and distributed. “2. The license must ensure that material distributed using the license cannot have those permissions restricted in the future.”[2] The Foundation explicitly stated that the first condition excludes licences that ban commercial use. The second requirement is intended to ensure that the rights granted by the licence are inalienable.[2] Reaction[edit] The OGL gained immediate popularity with commercial role-playing game publishers. However, the OGL was criticized (primarily by independent role-playing game developers) for being insufficiently "open", and for being controlled by the market leader Wizards of the Coast. In response to this, and in an attempt to shift support away from the OGL and toward more open licenses, several alternatives to the OGL were suggested and drafted. Similarly, the popularity of the OGL inspired others to create their own, specific open content licenses. Virtually none of these gained acceptance beyond the works of the licenses' own authors, and many have since been abandoned. Adoption[edit] The most common open gaming license in use by commercial role-playing game publishers is the OGL. There are many publishers currently producing material based on the first System Reference Document, and many which make their products available under the OGL but which use game systems not based on the SRD. Wizards of the Coast used the non-open Game System License for the 4th edition of Dungeons & Dragons, but released a new System Reference Document in 2015 for the 5th edition licensed under the OGL.[3][4] Approved licences[edit] The Open Gaming Foundation describes these licences as ‘Known Open Gaming Licenses’.[2] Open Game License Dominion Rules Licence GNU Free Documentation License GNU General Public License Open Publication License October Open Game License Open games[edit] The following games are under an Open Gaming Foundation-approved license or a free culture license. 13th Age by Fire Opal Media, published under license by Pelgrane Press (OGL)[5] Castles & Crusades by Troll Lord Games (OGL) Dominion Rules (Dominion Rules License) Dungeon World by Sage LaTorra and Adam Koebel (CC-BY 3.0) Fate by Fantastic Adventures in Tabletop Entertainment (OGL and CC-BY 3.0) Fudge System Reference Document by Grey Ghost Games (OGL) Gumshoe System by Pelgrane Press (CC-BY-3.0/OGL)[6] Labyrinth Lord by Goblinoid Games (OGL) Legend by Mongoose Publishing (OGL) OpenD6, based on the D6 System originally published by West End Games (OGL) OSRIC by Stuart Marshall and Mathew Finch (OGL) Pathfinder Roleplaying Game by Paizo (OGL) Traveller (role-playing game) by Mongoose Publishing (OGL) Eclipse Phase by Posthuman Studios (CC BY-NC-SA 3.0) Retro-clone systems[edit] Main article: Dungeons & Dragons retro-clones A number of fans and publishers have used existing open game content to create rules systems which closely emulate older editions of games that are no longer supported, and released those rules systems under an open license. The term "retro-clone" was coined by Goblinoid Games, the publisher of Labyrinth Lord.[7] Notable examples of retro-clone games are OSRIC (based on 1st edition Advanced Dungeons & Dragons), Labyrinth Lord (based on Basic Dungeons & Dragons), and Swords & Wizardry (based on original Dungeons & Dragons). References[edit] ^ a b Dancey, Ryan (2002-02-28). "The Most Dangerous Column in Gaming" (Interview). Interview with Ryan Dancey. Wizards of the Coast. Retrieved 2008-02-26. ^ a b c http://www.opengamingfoundation.org/licenses.html ^ https://arstechnica.com/gaming/2016/01/dd-5e-opens-up-lets-adventurers-sell-creations-in-print-and-online/ ^ http://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/systems-reference-document-srd ^ "Legal". 13th Age SRD. Retrieved 8 October 2018. ^ "The GUMSHOE System Reference Document". ^ https://retroclone.jottit.com/ External links[edit] Open Gaming Foundation A list of games based on the SRD FOSsil Bank’s list of free culture tabletop games (mostly RPGs) v t e Free-culture and open-source movements Concepts and practices Key concepts Commons-based peer production Crowdsourcing Gratis versus libre Open collaboration Openness Participatory culture Sharism Social peer-to-peer processes Peer-to-peer banking Peer-to-peer carsharing Peer-to-peer lending Peer-to-peer ridesharing Research and science Citizen science Open science Access Notebook science Research Science data Plan S Data, information, and knowledge Free content Knowledge commons Open communication Open knowledge Content Data Communication and learning Media Collaborative writing Democratic media Open publishing Participatory media Peer review Education Open education Educational resources University Admissions Open-door academic policy Journalism Citizen media Citizen journalism and Wiki journalism Open-source journalism Economy, production, and development Products Free and open-source software - FOSS Free/Libre software Open-source software Open-design movement Robotics Open gaming Open-source architecture Open-source hardware Economic principles Gift economy Open innovation Open patent Open standard Sharing economy Politics and governance Open government Open-source governance Organizations Creative Commons Free Software Foundation Open Architecture Network Openmod initiative Open Knowledge International Open Rights Group Open Source Initiative Open Web Foundation P2P Foundation Pirate Party PLOS SPARC Activists Tim Berners-Lee Alexandra Elbakyan Cody Wilson Lawrence Lessig Peter Murray-Rust Douglas Rushkoff Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Matthew H. Todd John Wilbanks Projects and movements DIYbio Free-culture movement Free software movement Open science movement Open Source Ecology Open-source software movement OpenCores OpenWetWare Sci-Hub Tools Licenses Creative Commons GPL Definition Docs Free Cultural Works Free Software Open Open Source Open Data Indices Open educational resources Open music model Open Web movement Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Open_gaming&oldid=946155740" Categories: Open-source tabletop games Role-playing game terminology Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Português Edit links This page was last edited on 18 March 2020, at 12:57 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
