Open Source Ecology - Wikipedia Open Source Ecology From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search ‹ The template Infobox organization is being considered for merging. › Open Source Ecology Abbreviation OSE Formation 2003; 17 years ago (2003) Headquarters Factor e Farm Location Maysville, Missouri, USA.[1][2] Region served Worldwide ED Marcin Jakubowski Budget $4,000 monthly Website Opensourceecology.org Play media Open Source Ecology: Practical post scarcity The 50 machines that compose the Global Village Construction Set Open Source Ecology (OSE) is a network of farmers, engineers, architects and supporters, whose main goal is the eventual manufacturing of the Global Village Construction Set (GVCS). As described by Open Source Ecology "the GVCS is an open technological platform that allows for the easy fabrication of the 50 types of industrial machines that it takes to build a small civilization with modern comforts".[3] Groups in Oberlin, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York and California are developing blueprints, and building prototypes in order to pass them on to Missouri.[4][5][6] The devices are built and tested on the Factor e Farm in rural Missouri. Recently, 3D-Print reports[7] OSE has been experimenting with RepRap 3-D printers as suggested by academics for sustainable development.[8] Contents 1 History 2 Factor e Farm 3 Current progress 4 Awards and recognition 5 List of machines 6 GVCS replication 7 See also 8 References 9 External links History[edit] Marcin Jakubowski founded the group in 2003.[9] In the final year of his doctoral thesis at the University of Wisconsin, he felt that his work was too closed off from the world's problems, and he wanted to go a different way. After graduation, he devoted himself entirely to OSE. OSE made it to the world stage in 2011 when Jakubowski presented his Global Village Construction Set TED Talk.[10] Soon, the GVCS won Make magazine's Green Project Contest. The Internet blogs Gizmodo and Grist produced detailed features on OSE. Jakubowski has since become a Shuttleworth Foundation Fellow (2012) and TED Senior Fellow (2012). In December 2013, Marcin married Catarina Mota. She co-chaired the Open Hardware Summit 2012, served on the board of directors of the Open Source Hardware Association, taught as an adjunct faculty member at ITP-NYU, and was a fellow of the National Science and Technology Foundation of Portugal. Catarina finished her PhD dissertation on the social impact of open and collaborative practices for the development of physical goods and technologies. She was a visiting scholar at ITP-NYU, Research Chair at the Open Source Hardware Association, TED Fellow, and member of NYC Resistor. Open Source Ecology is also developing in Europe as OSE Europe.[11] In 2016, OSE and the Open Building Institute joined forces to make affordable, ecological housing widely accessible.[12] The initiative has prototyped the Seed Eco-Home – a 1400 square foot home with the help of 50 people in a 5-day period – demonstrating that OSE's Extreme Manufacturing techniques can be apply to rapid swarm builds of large structures. Materials for the Seed Eco-Home cost around US$30,000. Further, OBI has prototyped the Aquaponic Greenhouse – which was also built in 5 days with 50 people. Factor e Farm[edit] The Factor e Farm is the headquarters where the machines are prototyped and tested. The farm also serves as a prototype. Using the Open Source Ecology principles, Marcin and Catarina have built four prototype modules which comprise their home. An added greenhouse demonstrates how a family can grow vegetables and fish. Outside, there is also a large garden including fruit trees.[13] Current progress[edit] In 2020, OSE is planning its most ambitious collaborative design effort by hosting an Incentive Challenge on the HeroX platform - to produce a professional grade, open source, 3D printed cordless drill that can be manufactured in distributed locations around the world. This project is intended to provide a proof-of-concept for the efficiency of open source development applied to tangible economic results. In 2019, initiatives included OSE Clubs and the Open Source Microfactory STEAM Camps. In 2018, the project achieved 33% completion. In 2014, 12 of the 50 machines were designed, blueprinted, and prototyped, with four of those reaching the documentation stage.[14][15] On October 2011 a Kickstarter fundraising campaign collected US$63,573 for project expenses and the construction of a training facility.[16] The project has been funded by the Shuttleworth Foundation[17] and is a semifinalist in the Focus Forward Film Festival.[18] Play media Powercube v7 Assembly video Play media Liberator Compressed Earth Brick Press v4 Assembly video LifeTrac tractor – Design Rationale LifeTrac tractor – Fabrication Report LifeTrac tractor- Fabrication Drawings Awards and recognition[edit] From 2012 to 2014, Dr. Jakubowski was awarded a Shuttleworth Foundation Fellowship. In 2011, the project won the Green Project Contest organized by Make magazine.[19] It was one of the 21 semi-finalists for the Buckminster Fuller Challenge, among 162 participants.[20] TIME magazine rated OSE's Civilization Starter Kit as a top invention of the year 2012.[21] List of machines[edit] The Global Village Construction Set (GVCS) comprises 50 industrial machines:[22][23] Category Global Village Construction Set (GVCS) Habitat Compressed earth block press v4 · Concrete mixer · Sawmill · Bulldozer · Backhoe Agriculture Tractor: LifeTrac v3 · Seeder · Hay rake · Microtractor · Rototiller · Spader · Hay cutter · Trencher · Bakery oven · Dairy milking machine · Microcombine harvester · Baler · Well-drilling rig Industry Multimachine · Ironworker · Laser cutter · Welder · Plasma cutter · Induction furnace · CNC torch table · Metal roller · Wire and rod mill · Press forge · Universal rotor · Drill press · 3D printer · 3D scanner · CNC circuit mill · Industrial robot · Woodchipper / Hammermill Energy Power Cube: PowerCube v7 · Gasifier burner · Solar concentrator · Electric motor / generator · Hydraulic motor · Nickel–iron battery · Steam engine · Steam generator · Wind turbine · Pelletizer · Universal power supply Materials Aluminium extractor · Bioplastic extruder Transportation Car · Truck GVCS replication[edit] The first time the Global Village Construction Set product was created by another group was in October, 2011; Jason Smith with James Slade and his organization Creation Flame[24] developed a functioning open source CEB press.[25] A group in Baltimore, Maryland, and a group in Dallas, Texas also began manufacturing GVCS machines.[26] See also[edit] Renewable energy portal Ecology portal Free and open-source software portal Ivan Illich – seminal figure in de-institutionalizing of education and appropriate modern technology Transition Towns a grassroots network of communities that are working to build resilience in response to peak oil, climate destruction, and economic instability. Eco-cities Sustainable city Open-source appropriate technology Open source Open-source movement Open source hardware The Open-Source Lab: How to Build Your Own Hardware and Reduce Research Costs Free software RepRap – A free and open-source software (FOSS) 3D printer. Fab lab MakerBot 3D printing Open design Sustainable energy Solar thermal energy Solar concentrator Wind turbine eXtreme Manufacturing List of open source hardware projects References[edit] ^ Factor e farm information Accessed: 7/28/2011. ^ "Google Maps Factor e Farm location". maps.google.com. Retrieved 2016-04-05. ^ "Open Source Ecology", Accessed: 7-23-2011. ^ Rohan Pearce (2011-12-14). "Can open source save the planet?". Techworld Australia. ^ Leah Messinger (2011-03-23). "A Mad Scientist's 50 Tools for Sustainable Communities". The Atlantic. ^ Ashlee Vance (2012-11-01). "The Post-Apocalypse Survival Machine Nerd Farm". Bloomberg Businessweek. ^ http://3dprint.com/10110/3d-printers-economy/ ^ J. M Pearce, C. Morris Blair, K. J. Laciak, R. Andrews, A. Nosrat and I. Zelenika-Zovko, "3-D Printing of Open Source Appropriate Technologies for Self-Directed Sustainable Development", Journal of Sustainable Development 3(4), pp. 17–29 (2010). ^ "About" Archived 2011-07-17 at the Wayback Machine, Accessed: 7-19-2011. ^ "Marcin Jakubowski: Open-sourced blueprints for civilization", April 2011. Accessed: 7-19-2011. ^ "OSE Europe". Opensourceecology.org. Retrieved 2013-02-07. ^ C. Priavolou, "The Emergence of Open Construction Systems: A Sustainable Paradigm in the Construction Sector?", Journal of Futures Studies 23(2), pp. 67-84 (2018). ^ Factor e Farm Information Accessed 7-31-2011. ^ Status Brief, Accessed: 2016-02-14 ^ GVCS Prototype Status, Accessed: 2016-02-14 ^ "Fundraising". Kickstarter.com. 2011-10-10. Retrieved 2013-02-07. ^ "Marcin Jakubowski". Shuttleworthfoundation.org. Retrieved 2013-02-07. ^ "Build yourself. – Tristan Copley Smith". Vimeo.com. 2012-10-19. Retrieved 2013-02-07. ^ "Open Source Ecology: Interview with Founder Marcin Jakubowski". makezine.com. 2012-02-24. Retrieved 2013-02-07. ^ The 2011 Buckminster Fuller Challenge Semi-Finalists | The Buckminster Fuller Challenge Archived February 29, 2012, at the Wayback Machine ^ "Tech Best Inventions 2012". TIME.com. 2012-11-01. Archived from the original on 2012-11-11. ^ "GVCS". Open Source Ecology. Retrieved 2013-02-07. ^ "Global Village Construction Set". Open Source Ecology. Retrieved 2013-02-07. ^ Creation Flame Main Page ^ Creation Flame progress Archived 2012-02-16 at Archive.today Accessed: 11/22/2011 ^ Other GVCS Replications Accessed: 11/22/2011 External links[edit] TED Talk on the Global Village Construction Set Official website Open Source Ecology: Wiki Open Source Ecology: Blog Open Source Ecology (OSE) Europe NPR: Building A Village Starts With Building The Tractor Bloomberg Businessweek:The Post-Apocalypse Survival Machine Nerd Farm v t e Simple living Practices Barter Cord-cutting DIY ethic Downshifting Dry toilet Fasting Forest gardening Freeganism Frugality Gift economy Intentional community Local currency Low-impact development Minimalism No frills Off-the-grid Permaculture Regift Self-sufficiency Subsistence agriculture Sustainable living Sustainable sanitation Veganism Vegetarianism Voluntary childlessness War tax resistance WWOOF Religious and spiritual Asceticism Aparigraha Cynicism Detachment Distributism Jesus movement Mendicant Mindfulness Monasticism New Monasticism Plain dress Plain people Quakers Rastafari Temperance Testimony of simplicity Tolstoyan movement Secular movements Back-to-the-land Car-free Compassionate living Environmental Hippie Slow Small house Transition town Open Source Ecology Tiny house movement Notable writers Wendell Berry Ernest Callenbach G. K. Chesterton Duane Elgin Mahatma Gandhi Richard Gregg Tom Hodgkinson Harlan Hubbard Satish Kumar Helen Nearing Scott Nearing Peace Pilgrim Nick Rosen Dugald Semple E. F. Schumacher George Skene Keith Henry David Thoreau Leo Tolstoy Valluvar Modern-day adherents Mark Boyle Jim Merkel Peace Pilgrim Suelo Thomas Varg Vikernes Media "Anekdote zur Senkung der Arbeitsmoral" Escape from Affluenza The Good Life The Moon and the Sledgehammer Mother Earth News The Power of Half Small Is Beautiful Walden Related topics Affluenza Agrarianism Amateurism Anarcho-primitivism Anti-consumerism Appropriate technology Bohemianism Consumerism Deep ecology Degrowth Ecological footprint Food miles Front Porch Republic Green anarchism The good life Global warming Hedonophobia Intentional living Itinerant Low-technology Nonviolence Peak oil Sustainability Work–life balance v t e Free-culture and open-source movements Concepts and practices Key concepts Commons-based peer production Crowdsourcing Gratis versus libre Open collaboration Openness Participatory culture Sharism Social peer-to-peer processes Peer-to-peer banking Peer-to-peer carsharing Peer-to-peer lending Peer-to-peer ridesharing Research and science Citizen science Open science Access Notebook science Research Science data Plan S Data, information, and knowledge Free content Knowledge commons Open communication Open knowledge Content Data Communication and learning Media Collaborative writing Democratic media Open publishing Participatory media Peer review Education Open education Educational resources University Admissions Open-door academic policy Journalism Citizen media Citizen journalism and Wiki journalism Open-source journalism Economy, production, and development Products Free and open-source software - FOSS Free/Libre software Open-source software Open-design movement Robotics Open gaming Open-source architecture Open-source hardware Economic principles Gift economy Open innovation Open patent Open standard Sharing economy Politics and governance Open government Open-source governance Organizations Creative Commons Free Software Foundation Open Architecture Network Openmod initiative Open Knowledge International Open Rights Group Open Source Initiative Open Web Foundation P2P Foundation Pirate Party PLOS SPARC Activists Tim Berners-Lee Alexandra Elbakyan Cody Wilson Lawrence Lessig Peter Murray-Rust Douglas Rushkoff Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Matthew H. Todd John Wilbanks Projects and movements DIYbio Free-culture movement Free software movement Open science movement Open Source Ecology Open-source software movement OpenCores OpenWetWare Sci-Hub Tools Licenses Creative Commons GPL Definition Docs Free Cultural Works Free Software Open Open Source Open Data Indices Open educational resources Open music model Open Web movement Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Open_Source_Ecology&oldid=946602043" Categories: Environmental organizations based in the United States Open hardware organizations and companies Engineering projects Free software Modular design Design Open-source movement Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Webarchive template archiveis links Pages using infobox organization with unknown parameters Articles containing video clips Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? ?eština Deutsch Español Français Italiano Polski Português ????? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 21 March 2020, at 06:08 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
