Open music model - Wikipedia Open music model From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Open Music Model) Jump to navigation Jump to search The open music model is an economic and technological framework for the recording industry based on research conducted at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. It predicts that the playback of prerecorded music will be regarded as a service rather than as individually sold products, and that the only system for the digital distribution of music that will be viable against piracy is a subscription-based system supporting file sharing and free of digital rights management. The research also indicated that US$9 per month for unlimited use would be the market clearing price at that time, but recommended $5 per month as the long-term optimal price.[1] Since its creation in 2002, a number of its principles have been adopted throughout the recording industry,[2] and it has been cited as the basis for the business model of many music subscription services.[3][4] Contents 1 Overview 2 Industry adoption 3 See also 4 References Overview[edit] The model asserts that there are five necessary requirements for a viable commercial music digital distribution network: # Requirement Description 1 Open file sharing users must be free to share files with each other 2 Open file formats content must be distributed in open formats with no DRM restrictions 3 Open membership copyright holders must be able to freely register to receive payment 4 Open payment payment should be accepted via multiple means, not a closed system 5 Open competition multiple such systems must exist which can interoperate, not a designed monopoly The model was proposed by Shuman Ghosemajumder in his 2002 research paper Advanced Peer-Based Technology Business Models[1] at the MIT Sloan School of Management. The following year, it was publicly referred to as the Open Music Model.[5] The model suggests changing the way consumers interact with the digital property market: rather than being seen as a good to be purchased from online vendor, music would be treated as a service being provided by the industry, with firms based on the model serving as intermediaries between the music industry and its consumers. The model proposed giving consumers unlimited access to music for the price of US$5 per month[1] (as of 2002), based on research showing that this could be a long-term optimal price, expected to bring in a total revenue of over US$3 billion per year.[1] The research demonstrated the demand for third-party file sharing programs. Insofar as the interest for a particular piece of digital property is high, and the risk of acquiring the good via illegitimate means is low, people will naturally flock towards third-party services such as Napster and Morpheus (more recently, Bittorrent and The Pirate Bay).[1] The research showed that consumers would use file sharing services not primarily due to cost but because of convenience, indicating that services which provided access to the most music would be the most successful.[1] Industry adoption[edit] The model predicted the failure of online music distribution systems based on digital rights management.[5][6] Criticisms of the model included that it would not eliminate the issue of piracy.[7] Others countered that it was in fact the most viable solution to piracy,[8] since piracy was "inevitable".[9] Supporters argued that it offered a superior alternative to the current law-enforcement based methods used by the recording industry.[10] One startup in Germany, Playment, announced plans to adapt the entire model to a commercial setting as the basis for its business model.[11] Several aspects of the model have been adopted by the recording industry and its partners over time: Why would the big four music companies agree to let Apple and others distribute their music without using DRM systems to protect it? The simplest answer is because DRMs haven't worked, and may never work, to halt music piracy. – Steve Jobs, Thoughts on Music[12] open letter, 2007 The abolition of digital rights management represented a major shift for the industry. In 2007, Steve Jobs, CEO of Apple, published a letter[12] calling for an end to DRM in music. A few months later, Amazon.com launched a store single individual DRM-free mp3's.[13] One year later, iTunes Store abolished DRM on most of its individual tracks.[14] Open payment was relatively straightforward to implement, and the iTunes Store offered gift cards, which could be purchased with cash, from its launch in 2003. In 2010, Rhapsody announced a download ability[15] for their subscribers using iPhones. In 2011, Apple launched its iTunes Match service with a subscription model, supporting file-sharing between a user's own devices.[16] However, the subscription price did not include the cost of acquiring content, which would still have to be purchased on a per track basis from the iTunes Store. Pricing close to the model's suggested $5 per month price, or its $9 per month market clearing price, has been adopted by many platforms: In 2005, Yahoo! Music was launched at $5 per month with digital rights management. In 2011, Spotify introduced a $5 per month premium subscription in the United States with digital rights management.[17] In 2011, Microsoft Zune offered a subscription service for music downloads with digital rights management known as a Zune Pass, at $10 a month. in 2012, Google Play Music launched unlimited music streaming for a subscription price of $9.99 per month.[18] Users can upload their own MP3s to the service and download them, but cannot download songs they have not uploaded themselves. In 2014, Amazon added DRM music streaming to their Amazon Prime service.[19] In 2015, Apple announced Apple Music, which would offer unlimited streaming of songs encrypted with FairPlay DRM for a subscription price of $9.99 per month, and compensate artists on the basis of song popularity. Apple reportedly wanted to enter the market with a lower price but was pressured by record labels to adopt a higher subscription fee.[20] See also[edit] Comparison of online music stores Comparison of on-demand streaming music services Disk sharing Fan-funded music File sharing File sharing timeline File-sharing program Peer-to-peer Record industry Subscription business model Threshold pledge system References[edit] ^ a b c d e f Shuman Ghosemajumder (May 10, 2002). "Advanced Peer-Based Technology Business Models". MIT Sloan School of Management. hdl:1721.1/8438. Cite journal requires |journal= (help) ^ Gautham Somraj Koorma (November 27, 2015). "On-Demand Music Streaming to battle Piracy". iRunway. ^ Marco Consoli (July 3, 2014). "Spotify, il business folle sbarca a Wall Street". L'Espresso. ^ Karol Kopa?ko (June 5, 2015). "Dla u?ytkowników streaming muzyki jest spe?nieniem marze?, a dla wytwórni – ?ród?em obaw". Gazeta.pl. ^ a b Ruth Suehle (November 3, 2011). "The DRM graveyard: A brief history of digital rights management in music". Red Hat Magazine. ^ Emanuele Lunadei; Christian Valdiva Torres; Erik Cambria (May 18, 2014). "Collective Copyright". International World Wide Web Conference 2014. ^ Sungwon Peter Choe (2006). "Music Distribution: Technology and the Value of Art in Society". KAIST. ^ Andrew Traub (November 25, 2009). "Open music model". US Intellectual Property Law. Archived from the original on January 1, 2011. ^ Yrjö Raivio (December 4, 2009). "Mobile Services and the Internet: A Study of Emerging Business Models" (PDF). Helsinki University of Technology. ^ Mat?j Myška (December 2007). "Flat Fee Music" (PDF). Masaryk University Journal of Law and Technology. Archived from the original (PDF) on July 18, 2011. ^ Playment. "Playment – Our Solution". playment.com. ^ a b Steve Jobs (February 6, 2007). "Thoughts on Music". Apple Inc. ^ Marshall Kirkpatrick (September 25, 2007). "Amazon MP3 Launches DRM-Free Music Store". ReadWriteWeb. ^ Peter Cohen (January 6, 2009). "iTunes Store goes DRM-free". MacWorld. ^ Kit Eaton (April 26, 2010). "Rhapsody First Subscription Service in U.S. to Offer Offline Music on iPhone". FastCompany. ^ Erik Rasmussen (November 16, 2011). "Cloud Music and iTunes Match". ^ Charlie Sorrel (July 14, 2011). "Spotify Launches in the U.S at Last". Wired. ^ Jefferson Graham (June 24, 2015). "First Look – Google Play Music has 1000s of free music playlists". USA Today. ^ http://www.windowsobserver.com/2014/06/12/the-gotchas-of-the-amazon-prime-music-service/ ^ Popper, Ben; Singleton, Micah (June 8, 2015). "Apple announces its streaming music service, Apple Music". The Verge. Vox Media. Archived from the original on June 8, 2015. Retrieved June 8, 2015. v t e Peer-to-peer file sharing Networks, protocols List List of P2P protocols Decentralized Ares BitTorrent FastTrack OpenFT Gnutella Gnutella2 Overnet WinMX Server-based Direct Connect eDonkey2000 Kad OpenNap Anonymous Freenet GNUnet MUTE Oneswarm Perfect Dark RetroShare Share StealthNet WASTE Winny Single client DAT Filetopia Fopnu Soribada Soulseek Comparisons of clients Advanced Direct Connect BitTorrent Direct Connect eDonkey Gnutella Gnutella2 Hyperlinks eD2k Magnet Metalink Uses Backup Broadcatching Segmented file transfer Disk sharing game & video sharing Image sharing Music sharing Peercasting Sharing software Web hosting (Freesite, IPFS, WebTorrent, ZeroNet) Legal aspects Concepts Privacy Anonymous P2P Darknet Darkweb Friend-to-friend I2P Open Music Model Private P2P Seedbox Tor Virtual private network Internal technologies Distributed data store DHT Merkle tree Mix networks NAT traversal PEX Protocol Encryption SHA-1 Super-seeding Tracker UDP hole punching µTP v t e Intellectual property activism Issues Artificial scarcity Copyright infringement Copyright troll Digital rights management Gripe site Legal aspects of file sharing Mashup digital music videos Monopolies of knowledge Music piracy Orphan works Patents biological software software patent debate trolling Public domain Concepts All rights reversed Alternative compensation system Anti-copyright notice Business models for open-source software Copyleft Commercial use of copyleft works Commons-based peer production Electronic sell-through Free content Free software license Libertarian positions Open content Open-design movement Open Music Model Open patent Open-source Open-source hardware Open-source software Prize system contests Share-alike Video on demand Movements Access to Knowledge movement Anti-copyright Cultural environmentalism Free-culture movement Free software movement Organizations Pro-copyright Copyright Alliance Pro-copyleft Creative Commons Electronic Frontier Foundation Free Software Foundation Open Rights Group Organization for Transformative Works The Pirate Bay Piratbyrån Pirate Party Public Knowledge Sci-Hub Students for Free Culture People Cory Doctorow Alexandra Elbakyan Rick Falkvinge Lawrence Lessig Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Documentaries Steal This Film (2006, 2007) Good Copy Bad Copy (2007) RiP!: A Remix Manifesto (2008) TPB AFK: The Pirate Bay Away From Keyboard (2013) The Internet's Own Boy (2014) v t e Free-culture and open-source movements Concepts and practices Key concepts Commons-based peer production Crowdsourcing Gratis versus libre Open collaboration Openness Participatory culture Sharism Social peer-to-peer processes Peer-to-peer banking Peer-to-peer carsharing Peer-to-peer lending Peer-to-peer ridesharing Research and science Citizen science Open science Access Notebook science Research Science data Plan S Data, information, and knowledge Free content Knowledge commons Open communication Open knowledge Content Data Communication and learning Media Collaborative writing Democratic media Open publishing Participatory media Peer review Education Open education Educational resources University Admissions Open-door academic policy Journalism Citizen media Citizen journalism and Wiki journalism Open-source journalism Economy, production, and development Products Free and open-source software - FOSS Free/Libre software Open-source software Open-design movement Robotics Open gaming Open-source architecture Open-source hardware Economic principles Gift economy Open innovation Open patent Open standard Sharing economy Politics and governance Open government Open-source governance Organizations Creative Commons Free Software Foundation Open Architecture Network Openmod initiative Open Knowledge International Open Rights Group Open Source Initiative Open Web Foundation P2P Foundation Pirate Party PLOS SPARC Activists Tim Berners-Lee Alexandra Elbakyan Cody Wilson Lawrence Lessig Peter Murray-Rust Douglas Rushkoff Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Matthew H. Todd John Wilbanks Projects and movements DIYbio Free-culture movement Free software movement Open science movement Open Source Ecology Open-source software movement OpenCores OpenWetWare Sci-Hub Tools Licenses Creative Commons GPL Definition Docs Free Cultural Works Free Software Open Open Source Open Data Indices Open educational resources Open music model Open Web movement Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Open_music_model&oldid=946338106" Categories: Business models Computer law Copyright law Economics models File sharing Free music Music industry Open content Peer-to-peer file sharing Internet terminology Intellectual property law Hidden categories: CS1 errors: missing periodical Use mdy dates from September 2017 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Français Polski ??????? ?????????? Edit links This page was last edited on 19 March 2020, at 15:18 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
George@John.com
