Open Data Indices - Wikipedia Open Data Indices From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article may contain excessive or inappropriate references to self-published sources. Please help improve it by removing references to unreliable sources where they are used inappropriately. (March 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article may rely excessively on sources too closely associated with the subject, potentially preventing the article from being verifiable and neutral. Please help improve it by replacing them with more appropriate citations to reliable, independent, third-party sources. (March 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Open data indices are indicators which assess and evaluates the general openness of an open government data portal. Open data indices not only show how open a data portal is, but also encourage citizens and government officials alike, to participate in their local open data communities, particularly in advocating for local open data and local open data policies. There are two mainstream methodologies, which are Global Open Data Index and Open Data Barometer. The Global Open Data Index evaluates an open data portal from 11 different aspects based on the Open Definition of open data, while the Open Data Barometer adds two more indices compared to the previous one. Scoring standard[edit] According to the service offered by Open Knowledge International, they run a measurement called "Global Open Data Index" which is "an annual effort to measure the state of open government data around the world".[1] And they evaluate the openness of an open dataset according to the following questions: 1. Does the data exist? (5 marks) The Open Knowledge Foundation specifically indicates that the data of an open data portal should be directly comes from the official government department or a third party with the permission of the government that they can fully represent the government. And if so, the third party should explicitly states the permission. 2. Is data in digital form? (5 marks) This question does not examines if the data can be accessed online or by public but if the data exists in any digital format. 3. Publicly available? (5 marks) A data could be considered as publicly available when it can be accessed without any permission or password by every individual (not just government officers) and there is no restrictions for the amount of photocopies can be made if the data is in the paper form. For this question, it does not matter if the data is in paper form or digital form. 4. Is the data available for free? (15 marks) The data is available for free if the access of the data does not require any forms of charges. 5. Is the data available online? (5 marks) The data is available online if it can be accessed through the Internet from an official source. 6. Is the data machine-readable? (15 marks) This question addresses whether the data is in a form that can be easily processed by the computer. File types such as XLS, CSV, JSON, XML are considered as machine-readable, while PDF, or HTML are not. 7. Available in bulk? (10 marks) If the whole dataset can be easily downloaded, it can be considered as available in bulk. 8. Openly licensed? (30 marks) This question addresses whether the data can be freely used, reused, and redistributed by everyone without any restrictions. A list of types of licenses that meet the requirements is listed at http://opendefinition.org/licenses/. 9. Is the data provided on a timely and up to date basis? (10 marks) This question examines if the data is updated on a regular basis. It requires personal judgement with rationale. Each of these questions evaluates different aspects of a dataset, and each question is weighted differently based on the importance. There is in total 13 types of datasets. The final score is calculated according to following equation: sum of all datasets scores/1300 ( (the maximum possible score that a country can get) - sum (13 dataset)/1300 = index percentage. The Global Open Data Index ranks each country according to their percentage of openness. In addition, the Open Data Barometer adds two more question for their evaluation of the open data portal, and they are: 10. Is the publication of the dataset sustainable? 11. Are (linked) data URIs provided for key elements of the data? References[edit] ^ Knowledge, Open. "Open Data Index - Open Knowledge". Open Data Index. Retrieved 2016-10-20. Further reading http://index.okfn.org/methodology/ http://opendatabarometer.org/2ndEdition/about/method.html http://opendefinition.org/od/2.1/en/ http://opendatawatch.com/monitoring-reporting/open-data-inventory/ See also[edit] Open data Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development v t e Free-culture and open-source movements Concepts and practices Key concepts Commons-based peer production Crowdsourcing Gratis versus libre Open collaboration Openness Participatory culture Sharism Social peer-to-peer processes Peer-to-peer banking Peer-to-peer carsharing Peer-to-peer lending Peer-to-peer ridesharing Research and science Citizen science Open science Access Notebook science Research Science data Plan S Data, information, and knowledge Free content Knowledge commons Open communication Open knowledge Content Data Communication and learning Media Collaborative writing Democratic media Open publishing Participatory media Peer review Education Open education Educational resources University Admissions Open-door academic policy Journalism Citizen media Citizen journalism and Wiki journalism Open-source journalism Economy, production, and development Products Free and open-source software - FOSS Free/Libre software Open-source software Open-design movement Robotics Open gaming Open-source architecture Open-source hardware Economic principles Gift economy Open innovation Open patent Open standard Sharing economy Politics and governance Open government Open-source governance Organizations Creative Commons Free Software Foundation Open Architecture Network Openmod initiative Open Knowledge International Open Rights Group Open Source Initiative Open Web Foundation P2P Foundation Pirate Party PLOS SPARC Activists Tim Berners-Lee Alexandra Elbakyan Cody Wilson Lawrence Lessig Peter Murray-Rust Douglas Rushkoff Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Matthew H. Todd John Wilbanks Projects and movements DIYbio Free-culture movement Free software movement Open science movement Open Source Ecology Open-source software movement OpenCores OpenWetWare Sci-Hub Tools Licenses Creative Commons GPL Definition Docs Free Cultural Works Free Software Open Open Source Open Data Indices Open educational resources Open music model Open Web movement Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Open_Data_Indices&oldid=947147671" Categories: Data analysis Hidden categories: Articles with self-published sources from March 2020 All articles with self-published sources Articles lacking reliable references from March 2020 All articles lacking reliable references Articles with multiple maintenance issues Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Add links This page was last edited on 24 March 2020, at 16:02 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
