P2P Foundation - Wikipedia P2P Foundation From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search ‹ The template Infobox organization is being considered for merging. › P2P Foundation Formation 2005; 15 years ago (2005) Location Amsterdam, Netherlands Founder Michel Bauwens Website http://p2pfoundation.net P2P Foundation: The Foundation for Peer to Peer Alternatives is an organization with the aim of studying the impact of peer to peer technology and thought on society. It was founded by Michel Bauwens, James Burke and Brice Le Blévennec.[1] The P2P Foundation is a registered institute founded in Amsterdam, Netherlands. Its local registered name is: Stichting Peer to Peer Alternatives, dossier nr: 34264847.[2] Contents 1 Mission 2 Knowledge Commons 3 Nakamoto controversy 4 Chokepoint Project 5 See also 6 References 7 External links Mission[edit] The P2P Foundation is an ANBI status non-profit organization and global network studying the social, economic and ecological impact of commons-based peer production. It was conceived to "help people, organizations and governments transition towards commons-based approaches to society through co-creating an open knowledge commons and a resilient, sustainable human network."[3] It functions as an organized network to facilitate and interconnect emergent commons-based initiatives by gathering information and researching and theorizing on the social impacts of peer to peer technologies and social relations.[4] The P2P Foundation's strategic priorities include working towards regenerative practices to end biosphere destruction (by recognizing natural and resources limits in the physical sphere) and promoting free knowledge and cultural exchange (by curtailing IP-driven "artificial scarcity" found in the digital realm).[5] It won the Golden Nica Award for "The Next Idea" 2011[6] and for "Digital Communities" in 2016.[7] Knowledge Commons[edit] The P2P Foundation maintains a number of websites including an open access wiki and daily blog, as well as an interactive, didactic website with introductory materials and infographics. The P2P Lab website features research projects undertaken by the P2P Foundation's research division.[8] Many of the P2P Foundation's publications can be found in its Library Page.[9] Nakamoto controversy[edit] Satoshi Nakamoto, the creator of bitcoin, released one of the first papers describing bitcoin on the p2p website.[10] When Newsweek ran an article claiming Nakamoto is Dorian S. Nakamoto from Temple City, California, Nakamoto's user profile posted that he was not Dorian.[10][11] The p2p foundation verified that the account was the same account that posted one of the first papers describing bitcoin.[10][12] On September 2014, Nakamoto's p2p account was allegedly hacked and a post was made to his account that said his information was being sold on Darknet.[13][14] Chokepoint Project[edit] The Chokepoint project was established in 2011 following the Internet blackouts in Egypt and Libya.[15] The internet blackouts inspired two members of the P2P Foundation, James Burke and Chris Pinchen, to create the Chokepoint Project. The project's aim is to create a live visual map of the internet that identifies Chokepoints and people holding access to these Chokepoints. Chokepoints are defined as points of Internet access vulnerability. This map would potentially allow people to identify the degree and precise location of internet outages. Much of the data used for the mapping is supplied by volunteers.[16] The Chokepoint project also works to dispel the assumption that the internet is a decentralized medium that is not subject to government power.[17] For those who are subject to internet blackouts, the Chokepoint projects also provides methods of circumventing these chokepoints and information on legal matters regarding the internet blackouts.[15] The Chokepoint project was awarded the Prix Arts Electronica in May 2011 in the Next Idea category.[18] See also[edit] Society portal Post-scarcity economy Peer production Commons-based peer production Adhocracy Emergent democracy P2P economic system Sharing economy Distributed economy Network economy Open design Open-source movement Open source hardware Open Source Ecology Daemon & Freedom™ Digital revolution Commonfare Convergence Festival Social peer-to-peer processes References[edit] ^ "An interview with Michel Bauwens founder of Foundation for P2P Alternatives". www.furtherfield.org. 2011-07-01. Archived from the original on 2011-08-31. Retrieved 2011-09-09. ^ Stichting Peer to Peer Alternatives[permanent dead link], Open kvk, (Retrieved Jan. 6, 2015). ^ "About", p2pfoundation.net. Retrieved 22-2-2018. ^ "Our Mission", p2pfoundation.net. Retrieved 22-2-2018. ^ Our Strategic Priorities, p2pfoundation.net. Retrieved 22-2-2018. ^ Kat Austen. Ars Electronica celebrates subversion , New Scientist, CultureLab, 5 September 2011 ^ Martin Hieslmair. The 2016 Golden Nicas, Ars Electronica blog, 10th May 2016 ^ The P2P Foundation's Web Ecosystem, p2pfoundation.net. Retrieved 22-2-2018. ^ The P2PF Library , p2pfoundation.net. Retrieved 22-2-2018. ^ a b c Catherine Shu, “Real” Satoshi Claims He Is Not Dorian Nakamoto, Tech Crunch, (March 6, 2014). ^ Ian Paul (7 March 2014). "Both Satoshi Nakamotos say accused Satoshi Nakamoto isn't Bitcoin's creator". PCWorld. ^ Julianne Pepitone. "Desperately Seeking Satoshi: Bitcoin Creator Hunt Turns Bizarre". NBC News. ^ "Bitcoin open source implementation of P2P currency". ning.com. ^ Jeremy Kirk (9 September 2014). "Will Bitcoin's creator be unmasked for $12,000?". PCWorld. ^ a b "Chokepoint project introduction". p2pfoundation.ning.com. Retrieved 2016-11-19. ^ Austen, Kat. "Subversive apps help citizens fight state silencing". New Scientist. Retrieved 2016-11-19. ^ "Prix Ars Electronica 2011 – ...and the Golden Nicas go to... - voestalpine". www.voestalpine.com. Retrieved 2016-11-19. ^ "James Burke - The Next Speaker". The Next Speaker. Retrieved 2016-11-19. External links[edit] Official website Open Access Wiki P2P Foundation Blog Commons Transition Primer P2P Lab v t e Free-culture and open-source movements Concepts and practices Key concepts Commons-based peer production Crowdsourcing Gratis versus libre Open collaboration Openness Participatory culture Sharism Social peer-to-peer processes Peer-to-peer banking Peer-to-peer carsharing Peer-to-peer lending Peer-to-peer ridesharing Research and science Citizen science Open science Access Notebook science Research Science data Plan S Data, information, and knowledge Free content Knowledge commons Open communication Open knowledge Content Data Communication and learning Media Collaborative writing Democratic media Open publishing Participatory media Peer review Education Open education Educational resources University Admissions Open-door academic policy Journalism Citizen media Citizen journalism and Wiki journalism Open-source journalism Economy, production, and development Products Free and open-source software - FOSS Free/Libre software Open-source software Open-design movement Robotics Open gaming Open-source architecture Open-source hardware Economic principles Gift economy Open innovation Open patent Open standard Sharing economy Politics and governance Open government Open-source governance Organizations Creative Commons Free Software Foundation Open Architecture Network Openmod initiative Open Knowledge International Open Rights Group Open Source Initiative Open Web Foundation P2P Foundation Pirate Party PLOS SPARC Activists Tim Berners-Lee Alexandra Elbakyan Cody Wilson Lawrence Lessig Peter Murray-Rust Douglas Rushkoff Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Matthew H. Todd John Wilbanks Projects and movements DIYbio Free-culture movement Free software movement Open science movement Open Source Ecology Open-source software movement OpenCores OpenWetWare Sci-Hub Tools Licenses Creative Commons GPL Definition Docs Free Cultural Works Free Software Open Open Source Open Data Indices Open educational resources Open music model Open Web movement Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=P2P_Foundation&oldid=917830322" Categories: Organizations established in the 2000s Peer-to-peer Non-profit organisations based in the Netherlands Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from March 2018 Articles with permanently dead external links Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Deutsch Español Esperanto ????? Français Italiano ????? Edit links This page was last edited on 25 September 2019, at 17:55 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
