Patricio Lorente - Wikipedia Patricio Lorente From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Patricio Lorente Patricio Lorente Chair of the Wikimedia Foundation In office 16 July 2015 – 23 June 2016 Preceded by Jan-Bart de Vreede Succeeded by Christophe Henner Personal details Born (1969-03-19) 19 March 1969 (age 51) La Plata, Argentina Occupation General Secretary of Universidad Nacional de la Plata, Chair Emeritus of the Wikimedia Foundation Patricio Lorente (born March 19, 1969 in La Plata) is an Argentine scholar and General Secretary of the National University of La Plata. Contents 1 Biography 2 Wikimedia Foundation activity 3 Reference 4 External links Biography[edit] Lorente was born in La Plata on March 19, 1969. His father, Hugo Enrique Lorente, of Basque descent, had the engineer in Telecommunications. His mother, Beatriz Gliemmo, of Italian descent, was the architect. He also had a 3 sisters.[1] He completed the Escuela Número 18 de Gonnet and high school in the Colegio Nacional de 1 y 49. Later, he studied philosophy, law, letters and computer science at the National University of La Plata, but without graduating.[1] For several years he worked in the field of Development Cooperation, managing the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of local development projects funded by the Italian government and the European Union. He worked to strengthen local capacity as a condition for development, transcending the traditional approach of North-South cooperation by promoting South-South. He also supported decentralized cooperation by building horizontal networks of exchange between different cities and regions of Argentina.[2] Since 2004, Patricio has served in the National University of La Plata, first as Prosecretary of Administration, then as General Prosecretary and subsequently as General Secretary. As the General Secretary he manages the strategic planning and the everyday issues and conflicts of a large and restless community, including both academics and student organizations. As with all public universities in Argentina, there is no tuition and enrollment is free.[2] Patricio has devoted his time to outreach activities in education, with particular interest in off-wiki activities. He is the author of a booklet published by Wikimedia Argentina called "Wikipedia in the classroom" and, representing Wikimedia Argentina, he was a member of the Advisory Board of Conectar Igualdad, a government program that is delivering more than three million netbooks to all public high school students in Argentina. As a result of this work, many wiki-related activities were launched and the National Ministry of Education opened a special site with tutorials, documents and guides about Wikipedia and education. There is also a special pilot program in more than 200 schools across the country - “Escuelas de Innovación” (Innovative Schools) - that is directly training teachers on possible uses of Wikimedia projects for their classes, not only in terms of creating content but also regarding notions of relevance, content verification and discussions on neutrality issues.[2] He currently lives in City Bell, Argentina.[3] Wikimedia Foundation activity[edit] Patricio joined the Spanish Wikipedia as an editor April 20, 2005[3] and he has been an admin (sysop, bureaucrat) since 2006. He is also a founding member of Wikimedia Argentina and was its President from 2007 to 2012. He was responsible for the organization of Wikimania 2009 in Buenos Aires and has participated as an organizer or speaker in numerous conferences, seminars and workshops on Wikipedia/Wikimedia in Argentina and other Latin American countries (Colombia, Ecuador, México, Perú). He was one of the primary organizers of the first Ibero-American Wikimedia Summit, held in Buenos Aires in 2011, which helped bring together representatives from both established Wikimedia chapters and informal working groups throughout Latin America, Spain, Portugal and Italy.[2] Patricio was running for Board elections of 2011.[4] In July 2012 he joined the Wikimedia Foundation Board as a Chapters selected Trustee in 2012, and was re-selected in August 7, 2014 until August 2016.[5] In August 2014, he was elected Vice Chair of the Board. In July 2015 he was elected Chair of the Board, and his term ended on June 2016[2] Reference[edit] ^ a b "El titular de la Fundación Wikimedia, Patricio Lorente, visitará el programa "Ciudadanos Ilustres"". NOVA La Plata. Retrieved Jul 18, 2019. ^ a b c d e https://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Former_Board_of_Trustees_members#Patricio_Lorente ^ a b es:Usuario:Patricio.lorente ^ "Wikimedia Foundation elections/Board elections/2011/Candidates/en - Meta". meta.wikimedia.org. Retrieved Jul 18, 2019. ^ "Resolution:Patricio Lorente appointment 2014 - Wikimedia Foundation Governance Wiki". foundation.wikimedia.org. Retrieved Jul 18, 2019. External links[edit] El platense Patricio Lorente es el nuevo presidente de la fundación que dirige Wikipedia Patricio Lorente y Lila TretikoV: "Wikipedia es una Babel especial, los idiomas no frenan la comunicación" Patricio Lorente: "Decir que Wikipedia no es confiable es haberse quedado en el tiempo" Patricio Lorente, nuevo presidente de la Fundación Wikimedia v t e Wikimedia Foundation People Current Aaron Halfaker James Heilman Dariusz Jemielniak Katherine Maher Jimmy Wales Past Hampton Catlin Danese Cooper Bishakha Datta Florence Devouard Oscar van Dillen Sue Gardner Arnnon Geshuri Mike Godwin Guy Kawasaki Erik Möller Lila Tretikov Luis Villa Patricio Lorente Content projects Wikipedia List of Wikipedias Wiktionary List of Wiktionaries Wikimedia Commons Wikidata Wikiquote Wikibooks Wikisource Wikispecies Wikinews Wikiversity Wikivoyage Other Wikimedia movement List of Wikimedia chapters Wikimania Wiki Indaba MediaWiki Litigation Wikimedia v. NSA Knowledge Engine Related The Signpost Wikipedia Monument Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Patricio_Lorente&oldid=939368410" Categories: 1969 births People from La Plata Wikimedia Foundation people Living people National University of La Plata faculty Argentine people of Basque descent Wikipedia people Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Español Edit links This page was last edited on 6 February 2020, at 01:14 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
