PC World - Wikipedia PC World From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article is about the electronics magazine. For the British retailer, see PC World (retailer). For the defunct British magazine, see Personal Computer World. Computer magazine PC World Editor Jon Phillips Categories Computer magazine Frequency Monthly Total circulation (December 2012) 355,117 (United States)[1] First issue March 1983; 37 years ago (1983-03) Final issue August 2013 (2013-08) (print) Company IDG Country United States Based in San Francisco, California, US Language English Website www.pcworld.com ISSN 0737-8939 PC World is a global computer magazine published monthly by IDG.[2] Since 2013, it has been an online only publication. It offers advice on various aspects of PCs and related items, the Internet, and other personal technology products and services. In each publication, PC World reviews and tests hardware and software products from a variety of manufacturers, as well as other technology related devices such as still and video cameras, audio devices and televisions. The current editor of PC World is Jon Phillips, formerly of Wired. In August 2012, he replaced Steve Fox, who had been editorial director since the December 2008 issue of the magazine. Fox replaced the magazine's veteran editor Harry McCracken, who resigned that spring,[3] after some rocky times, including quitting and being rehired over editorial control issues in 2007.[4] PC World is published under other names such as PC Advisor and PC Welt in some countries. PC World's company name is IDG Consumer & SMB, and it is headquartered in San Francisco.[5] Some of the non English PC World websites now redirect to other IDG sites; for example, PCWorld.dk (Denmark) is now Computerworld.dk. Contents 1 History 2 Countries 3 Controversy 4 See also 5 References 6 External links History[edit] The publication was announced at the COMDEX trade show in November 1982, and first appeared on newsstands in March 1983; Felix Dennis set up Personal Computer World which he later sold to VNU, and established MacUser which he sold to Ziff Davis Publishing in the mid eighties. PC Magazine was also acquired by Ziff Davis.[6] The magazine was founded by David Bunnell and Cheryl Woodard, and its first editor was Andrew Fluegelman. PC World's magazine and web site have won a number of awards from Folio, the American Society of Business Publication Editors, MIN, the Western Publications Association, and other organizations; it is also one of the few technology magazines to have been a finalist for a National Magazine Award. Many well known technology writers have contributed to PC World, including Steve Bass, Daniel Tynan, Christina Wood, John C. Dvorak, Stephen Manes, Lincoln Spector, Stewart Alsop, David Coursey, James A. Martin, and others. Editorial leadership has included Harry Miller, Richard Landry, Eric Knorr, Phil Lemmons, Cathryn Baskin, Kevin McKean, and Harry McCracken. In February 1999, PC World's number of paid subscriptions reached a record of 1,000,453. At the time, it was the first and only computing magazine with a monthly release schedule to hit that mark.[7] In April 2005, the show Digital Duo was slightly rebranded and relaunched as PC World's Digital Duo, and ran for an additional 26 episodes. As of 2006, PC World's audited rate base of 750,000 made it the largest circulation computing magazine in the world.[8] On July 10, 2013, owner IDG announced that the magazine would cease its thirty year print run.[9] The issue of August 2013 was the last printed of the magazine PC World, future issues would be digital only.[10] Countries[edit] Based in San Francisco, PC World's original edition is published in the United States however it is also available in other countries (51 in total), sometimes under a different name: PC World in Albania, Australia, Bangladesh, Bulgaria, Brazil, Denmark, Greece, Hungary, India (from July 2006), Kosovo, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Spain, Romania, Russia, Turkey, Vietnam, Ecuador. PC Advisor in Ireland and the United Kingdom. (Another now discontinued magazine called Personal Computer World and a PC World retailer  — neither related to the PC World magazine  — already exist or existed in those markets.) PC Welt, is the German language edition. Info Komputer, is the Indonesian language edition. Kompiuterija, is the Lithuanian language edition. Th? Gi?i Vi Tính, is the Vietnamese language edition (also called PC World Vietnam). Mikro - PC World, is the Serbian language edition. ??? ??, is the Russian language edition. Controversy[edit] In May 2007, McCracken resigned abruptly under controversial circumstances. According to sources quoted in Wired, McCracken quit abruptly because the new CEO of PC World, Colin Crawford, tried to kill an unfavorable story about Apple and Steve Jobs.[11] Crawford responded, calling media reports of McCracken's resignation "inaccurate."[12] CNET later reported that McCracken had told colleagues that IDG "was pressuring him to avoid stories that were critical of major advertisers."[13][14] On May 9, Crawford was transferred to another department, and McCracken returned to PC World until his departure in 2008.[15] See also[edit] San Francisco Bay Area portal Companies portal PC Magazine WorldBench References[edit] ^ "eCirc for Consumer Magazines". Alliance for Audited Media. December 31, 2012. Archived from the original on January 23, 2017. Retrieved February 22, 2013. ^ "IDG Print Publication: PCWorld". ^ "Goodbye, Kind PC World". Archived from the original on September 6, 2011. ^ "Editor in Chief Harry McCracken Returns to PCW". Archived from the original on October 4, 2011. ^ "contact Us Archived 2010-01-02 at the Wayback Machine." PC World Communications. Retrieved December 29, 2009. ^ Deborah Wise (December 20, 1982). "Staff walks out on PC Magazine, starts new journal". InfoWorld. Popular Computing, Inc. 4 (50): 1, 10. ISSN 0199-6649. ^ "Timely News from the Interactive Entertainment Industry - PC World Reaches One Million". Archived from the original on May 20, 2001. Retrieved May 20, 2001. ^ Print circulation Archived June 15, 2007, at the Wayback Machine ^ Bill Mickey (July 10, 2013). "IDG's PCWorld Going Digital-Only". Folio. Access Intelligence. Retrieved July 10, 2013. ^ Harry McCracken (July 11, 2013). "PCWorld Exits Print, and the Era of Computer Magazines Ends". Time Magazine. Retrieved August 13, 2015. ^ Kim Zetter, "PC World Editor Quits Over Apple Story" in Wired magazine, May 2, 2007. ^ "PC World editor quits during dispute over Apple story" in AppleInsider, May 3, 2007. ^ Tom Krazit, "PC World editor resigns over apparent ad pressure" from CNet, May 2, 2007. ^ "Editor quits after PC Mag kills Apple story" from MacNN, May 3, 2007. ^ Ramon G. McLeod, "Editor in Chief Harry McCracken Returns to PCW" Archived May 10, 2007, at the Wayback Machine from PC World.com, May 9, 2007. External links[edit] PC World website Official mobile website[permanent dead link] PC World Bulgaria website PC World Romania website PC World India website PC World Albanian website PC World Polish website PC Welt German website PC World Czech website PC World Site website Meeting App v t e IDG Magazines CIO Computerworld CSO GamePro (former) GameStar (former) Macworld Network World PC Advisor PC World Websites InfoWorld (The Industry Standard) ITworld JavaWorld TechWorld IDG World Expo DEMO LinuxWorld Macworld/iWorld Other IDC IDG Ventures v t e Video game journalism Video game magazines Edge Electronic Gaming Monthly Famitsu GamePro Game Informer Gamereactor Hobby Consolas LeveL Metro GameCentral Micromanía Nintendo Power Official PlayStation Magazine US (Ziff Davis) US (Future Publ.) UK Australia Ireland Official Xbox Magazine Oyungezer PC Format PC Gamer PC World Pocket Gamer Power Unlimited Retro Gamer Switch Player Video game websites 4Players Adventure Gamers AusGamers Destructoid Easy Allies Game Revolution GameFront Gameplanet Gamer Network Eurogamer Rock, Paper, Shotgun VG247 GamesRadar+ GameSpot Giant Bomb IGN Kotaku Operation Rainfall PCGamesN Polygon Shacknews Review aggregators GameRankings Metacritic OpenCritic Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=PC_World&oldid=947678722" Categories: American monthly magazines Australian computer magazines Defunct American computer magazines Indian computer magazines International Data Group Italian computer magazines Magazines established in 1982 Magazines disestablished in 2013 Online magazines with defunct print editions Spanish computer magazines Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Use mdy dates from September 2019 Articles with short description All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from March 2018 Articles with permanently dead external links Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? Deutsch Español ????? Français ??? Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ??????? Bahasa Melayu ?????????? Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Român? ??????? Shqip Türkçe Ti?ng Vi?t ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 27 March 2020, at 20:34 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Thomas@Frank.com
