Peter Sunde - Wikipedia Peter Sunde From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Peter Sunde Sunde in 2009 Born Peter Sunde Kolmisoppi (1978-09-13) 13 September 1978 (age 41) Uddevalla, Sweden Other names brokep Occupation Politician, spokesperson Known for Co-founder of The Pirate Bay Founder of Flattr Co-founder of Kvittar Co-founder of IPREDator Founder of Njalla Peter Sunde Kolmisoppi (born 13 September 1978), alias brokep, is a Swedish entrepreneur and politician. Sunde is of Norwegian and Finnish ancestry.[1][2] He is best known for being a co-founder and ex-spokesperson of The Pirate Bay, a BitTorrent search engine.[3] He is an equality advocate and has expressed concerns over issues of centralization of power to the European Union in his blog.[4] Sunde also participates in the Pirate Party of Finland and describes himself as a socialist.[5] As of April 2017, Sunde has been working on a new venture called Njalla, a privacy oriented domain name registrar.[6] Contents 1 Personal life 2 The Pirate Bay trial 3 Flattr 4 Hemlis 5 Kopimashin 6 See also 7 References 8 External links Personal life[edit] Before the founding of the Pirate Bay Sunde worked for Siemens. In 2003 he became a member of Sweden's Piratbyrån (The Pirate Bureau) and a few months later Sunde, Fredrik Neij and Gottfrid Svartholm started The Pirate Bay with Sunde as the spokesperson.[7] He remained The Pirate Bay's spokesperson until late 2009 (three years after the ownership of the site transferred to Reservella). In August 2011 Sunde and fellow Pirate Bay co-founder Fredrik Neij launched file-sharing site BayFiles, that aims to legally share.[8] Sunde is vegan[9] and speaks Swedish, Finnish, Norwegian, English and German. Peter Sunde ran for European Parliament in 2014 election with the Pirate Party of Finland.[10] On 31 May 2014, just days after the EU elections and exactly eight years after the police raided The Pirate Bay servers, Sunde was arrested at a farm in Oxie, Malmö to serve his prison sentence for the Pirate Bay case.[11] He was released five months later after having served two-thirds of his eight-month sentence.[12] The Pirate Bay trial[edit] Main article: The Pirate Bay trial On 31 January 2008, The Pirate Bay operators – Sunde, Fredrik Neij, Gottfrid Svartholm and Carl Lundström (CEO of The Pirate Bay's former ISP) – were charged with "assisting [others in] copyright infringement".[13] The trial began on 16 February 2009. On 17 April 2009, Sunde and his co-defendants were found to be guilty of "assisting in making copyright content available" in the Stockholm District Court. Each defendant was sentenced to one year in prison and ordered to pay damages of 30 million SEK (approximately €2,740,900 or US$3,620,000), to be apportioned among the four defendants.[14] After the verdict a press conference was held where Sunde held up a handwritten IOU statement claiming that is all the damages he will pay, adding "Even if I had any money I would rather burn everything I own and not even give them the ashes. They could have the job of picking them up. That's how much I hate the media industry."[15] The defendants' lawyers appealed to the Svea Court of Appeal together with a request for a retrial in the district court claiming bias on the part of judge Tomas Norström.[16] The district court ruled there was no bias and denied the request for a retrial. On appeal, the jail sentences were reduced, but the damages increased. The supreme court of Sweden subsequently refused to hear any further appeal. The European Court of Human Rights also later rejected an appeal.[17] Segments of an interview with Sunde talking about copyright, the Internet, and culture are featured in the 2007 documentary Steal This Film and 2013 documentary TPB AFK. Flattr[edit] Main article: Flattr Flattr is a micropayments system started by Sunde and Linus Olsson, which enables viewers of websites to make small donations to the developer by clicking a "Flattr this" button. At the time of the projects's announcement in February 2010, Sunde explained that "the money you pay each month will be spread evenly among the buttons you click in a month. We want to encourage people to share money as well as content."[18] Flattr itself takes a 10% administration fee.[18] After WikiLeaks's initial publication of the U.S. Diplomatic Cables, companies including Visa, MasterCard, PayPal and Moneybookers blocked donations and money transfers to the site. Flattr, however, continued allowing donations to WikiLeaks. Sunde commented "We [Flattr] think their work is exactly what is needed and if we can help just a little bit, we will."[19] On 5 April 2017, Adblock Plus publisher Eyeo GmbH announced that it had acquired Flattr for an undisclosed amount.[20] Hemlis[edit] On 9 July 2013, Peter Sunde, together with Leif Högberg and Linus Olsson, announced a fundraising campaign for Hemlis.[21] Their goal was to launch a mass market messenger that was private, secure and beautiful.[22] On 22 April 2015, the Hemlis team announced that they were discontinuing the development of the Hemlis messaging platform.[23] Kopimashin[edit] It has been suggested that this section be split out into another article. (Discuss) (March 2020) On 14 December 2015, Sunde released a video[24] on his Vimeo account of a device called "Kopimashin", a machine made with a Raspberry Pi running a Python routine to produce 100 copies per second of Gnarls Barkley's single "Crazy", redirecting the copies to /dev/null (where the data is discarded), surpassing eight million copies per day. The following day, Sunde published the full description of the device and project at Konsthack as the first art project of the site's portfolio.[25] The machine has an LCD screen (as shown in the video) that calculates a running tally of the damages it has supposedly inflicted upon the record industry through its use, accordingly to what RIAA claims on their website.[26] If RIAA's claims are valid, it also means the record industry is supposed to bankrupt soon due to Kopimashin,[27] a claim the project seeks to disprove with a physical example. A few days later, Sunde told news site TorrentFreak that Kopimashin was created to "show the absurdity on the process of putting a value to a copy", and that "putting a price to a copy is futile."[28] also noting that it's merely an act against the record industry itself and recording labels, who have claimed millions of dollars in losses to the music industry to be caused by Sunde and The Pirate Bay over the past years. A similar project called "Strata Kazika" was already launched by Polish activists in 2012.[29][30] See also[edit] Alexandra Elbakyan Sci-Hub Library Genesis Lost sales References[edit] ^ Kuprijanko, Alexander (7 February 2009). "Jag känner inte att jag gör något fel". Sydsvenskan (in Swedish). Archived from the original on 10 April 2009. ^ Waters, Darren (16 April 2009). "Countdown to Pirate Bay verdict". BBC. Retrieved 20 April 2009. ^ Thorkildsen, Joakim (31 January 2008). "Norske Peter tiltalt i The Pirate Bay-saken". Dagbladet (in Norwegian). Retrieved 29 June 2008. ^ "EUP 2014 – Copy me happy". blog.brokep.com. Retrieved 7 January 2018. ^ Mollen, Joost (11 December 2015). "Pirate Bay Founder Peter Sunde: I have given up". Motherboard. ^ "Pirate Bay Founder Launches Anonymous Domain Registration Service – TorrentFreak". TorrentFreak. 19 April 2017. Retrieved 21 April 2017. ^ "Pirate Bay's Founding Group 'Piratbyrån' Disbands". TorrentFreak. 23 June 2010. Retrieved 3 February 2012. ^ "Pirate Bay Founders Launch "Legal" File-Sharing Site". Tomsguide.com. 31 August 2011. Retrieved 3 February 2012. ^ "Pirate Bay Crew Chums Up to Foes Over Lunch". WIRED. 18 February 2009. Retrieved 7 January 2018. ^ Van der Sar, Ernesto (14 May 2013). "Pirate Bay Co-Founder to Run For European Parliament". TorrentFreak. Retrieved 7 January 2018. ^ Baker, Jennifer (31 May 2014). "The Pirate Bay Spokesperson Peter Sunde Arrested in Sweden". Revolution News. Archived from the original on 23 April 2016. Retrieved 7 January 2018. ^ Farivar, Cyrus (10 November 2014). "Pirate Bay co-founder Peter Sunde freed after 5 months in prison". Ars Technica. Retrieved 7 January 2018. ^ "Pirate Bay Future Uncertain After Operators Busted". Retrieved 7 January 2018. ^ "The Pirate Bay Trial: The Official Verdict – Guilty – TorrentFreak". 17 April 2009. Retrieved 7 January 2018. ^ Kiss, Jemima (17 April 2009). "Pirate Bay defendant: we can't and won't pay". The Guardian. London. ^ "Pirate Bay lawyer calls for retrial". The Local. 23 April 2009. ^ "The European Court of Human Rights rejects Pirate Bay file-sharing appeal" Archived 14 March 2014 at the Wayback Machine ^ a b "Pirate boss to make the web pay". BBC News. 12 February 2010. Retrieved 22 May 2010. ^ "Peter Sunde Kolmisoppi : Kevin Trudeau Show". Ktradionetwork.com. 23 August 2010. Archived from the original on 30 March 2012. Retrieved 3 February 2012. ^ Ha, Anthony. "The company behind Adblock Plus is acquiring micropayment service Flattr". TechCrunch. Retrieved 22 April 2017. ^ "Hello world! We are fundraising!". Hemlis blog. Archived from the original on 22 April 2015. Retrieved 22 April 2015. ^ "Pirate Bay Founder to Launch NSA-proof Messenger App – TorrentFreak". 10 July 2013. Retrieved 7 January 2018. ^ "Sometimes you understand". Hemlis blog. Archived from the original on 22 April 2015. Retrieved 22 April 2015. ^ "KH000//Kopimashin". 14 December 2015. Retrieved 25 December 2015. ^ "Konsthack > Portfolio > KH000 // Kopimashin". 15 December 2015. Retrieved 25 December 2015. ^ "RIAA > Piracy Online > Who Music Theft Hurts". Retrieved 25 December 2015. ^ "RIAA > Piracy Online > Scope of the Problem". Retrieved 25 December 2015. ^ "Pirate Bay Founder Builds the Ultimate Piracy Machine". 19 December 2015. Retrieved 25 December 2015. ^ S.A, Wirtualna Polska Media (28 August 2012). "Strata Kazika, czyli jak ukra?? 86 milionów z?otych". tech.wp.pl (in Polish). Retrieved 11 March 2020. ^ "Twórca "Straty Kazika": Do?? szanta?u moralnego w przemy?le muzycznym, piractwo to zdrowa kultura". naTemat.pl (in Polish). Retrieved 11 March 2020. External links[edit] Wikiquote has quotations related to: Peter Sunde Wikimedia Commons has media related to Peter Sunde. Official website The Story Of The Pirate Bay (in Swedish) "It’s Evolution, Stupid" Peter Sunde (Co-Founder, The Pirate Bay) – Wired, Column (02/10/2012) v t e Free-culture and open-source movements Concepts and practices Key concepts Commons-based peer production Crowdsourcing Gratis versus libre Open collaboration Openness Participatory culture Sharism Social peer-to-peer processes Peer-to-peer banking Peer-to-peer carsharing Peer-to-peer lending Peer-to-peer ridesharing Research and science Citizen science Open science Access Notebook science Research Science data Plan S Data, information, and knowledge Free content Knowledge commons Open communication Open knowledge Content Data Communication and learning Media Collaborative writing Democratic media Open publishing Participatory media Peer review Education Open education Educational resources University Admissions Open-door academic policy Journalism Citizen media Citizen journalism and Wiki journalism Open-source journalism Economy, production, and development Products Free and open-source software - FOSS Free/Libre software Open-source software Open-design movement Robotics Open gaming Open-source architecture Open-source hardware Economic principles Gift economy Open innovation Open patent Open standard Sharing economy Politics and governance Open government Open-source governance Organizations Creative Commons Free Software Foundation Open Architecture Network Openmod initiative Open Knowledge International Open Rights Group Open Source Initiative Open Web Foundation P2P Foundation Pirate Party PLOS SPARC Activists Tim Berners-Lee Alexandra Elbakyan Cody Wilson Lawrence Lessig Peter Murray-Rust Douglas Rushkoff Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Matthew H. Todd John Wilbanks Projects and movements DIYbio Free-culture movement Free software movement Open science movement Open Source Ecology Open-source software movement OpenCores OpenWetWare Sci-Hub Tools Licenses Creative Commons GPL Definition Docs Free Cultural Works Free Software Open Open Source Open Data Indices Open educational resources Open music model Open Web movement v t e Intellectual property activism Issues Artificial scarcity Copyright infringement Copyright troll Digital rights management Gripe site Legal aspects of file sharing Mashup digital music videos Monopolies of knowledge Music piracy Orphan works Patents biological software software patent debate trolling Public domain Concepts All rights reversed Alternative compensation system Anti-copyright notice Business models for open-source software Copyleft Commercial use of copyleft works Commons-based peer production Electronic sell-through Free content Free software license Libertarian positions Open content Open-design movement Open Music Model Open patent Open-source Open-source hardware Open-source software Prize system contests Share-alike Video on demand Movements Access to Knowledge movement Anti-copyright Cultural environmentalism Free-culture movement Free software movement Organizations Pro-copyright Copyright Alliance Pro-copyleft Creative Commons Electronic Frontier Foundation Free Software Foundation Open Rights Group Organization for Transformative Works The Pirate Bay Piratbyrån Pirate Party Public Knowledge Sci-Hub Students for Free Culture People Cory Doctorow Alexandra Elbakyan Rick Falkvinge Lawrence Lessig Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Documentaries Steal This Film (2006, 2007) Good Copy Bad Copy (2007) RiP!: A Remix Manifesto (2008) TPB AFK: The Pirate Bay Away From Keyboard (2013) The Internet's Own Boy (2014) v t e Tor onion services List Category Web directories The Hidden Wiki Search engines Ahmia DuckDuckGo Cliqz Grams MetaGer Searx Startpage.com News BBC News Deutsche Welle The Daily Stormer DeepDotWeb Independent Media Center The Intercept The New York Times File storage and peer-to-peer file sharing BTDigg Freedom Hosting Free Haven Project KickassTorrents The Pirate Bay Email and instant messaging Bitmessage.ch Keybase Riseup Tor Mail TorChat SIGAINT ProtonMail Social media and forums 8chan Dark0de Dread facebookcorewwwi.onion HackBB The Hub Russian Anonymous Marketplace Tor Carding Forum Financial Blockchain.info Helix Darknet markets Agora AlphaBay Atlantis Black Market Reloaded Dream Market Evolution The Farmer's Market Hansa Sheep Marketplace Silk Road TheRealDeal Utopia Document archives Archive.today Doxbin Internet Archive Sci-Hub Nonprofit organizations Courage Foundation Freedom of the Press Foundation La Quadrature du Net Telecomix Government Central Intelligence Agency Whistleblowing BuggedPlanet Filtrala GlobaLeaks Ljost NawaatLeaks ProPublica SecureDrop WildLeaks WikiLeaks Pornography Childs Play Lolita City Playpen Pornhub Tor .onion domain Tor2web Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Peter_Sunde&oldid=945045347" Categories: 1978 births Spokespersons Living people People from Uddevalla Municipality The Pirate Bay Intellectual property activism Copyright activists Swedish people of Norwegian descent Swedish people of Finnish descent Swedish politicians Hidden categories: CS1 Swedish-language sources (sv) CS1 Norwegian-language sources (no) Webarchive template wayback links CS1 Polish-language sources (pl) Use dmy dates from March 2020 Articles with hCards Articles to be split from March 2020 All articles to be split Commons category link from Wikidata Articles with Swedish-language sources (sv) Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiquote Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Català Dansk Deutsch Español Français Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Norsk bokmål Plattdüütsch Português Român? ??????? Shqip Suomi Svenska ??? ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t Edit links This page was last edited on 11 March 2020, at 14:00 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
