Powerset (company) - Wikipedia Powerset (company) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search See also: Bing (search engine) This article needs to be updated. Please update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (December 2015) ‹ The template Infobox company is being considered for merging. › Powerset Founded San Francisco, U.S. (2005) Headquarters San Francisco, California, U.S. Parent Microsoft (as of August 1, 2008) Website www.powerset.com  Powerset was an American company based in San Francisco, California, that, in 2006, was developing a natural language search engine for the Internet.[1] On July 1, 2008, Powerset was acquired by Microsoft for an estimated $100 million.[2] Powerset was working on building a natural language search engine that could find targeted answers to user questions (as opposed to keyword based search). For example, when confronted with a question like "Which U.S. state has the highest income tax?", conventional search engines ignore the question phrasing and instead do a search on the keywords "state", "highest", "income", and "tax". Powerset on the other hand, attempts to use natural language processing to understand the nature of the question and return pages containing the answer. The company was in the process of "building a natural language search engine that reads and understands every sentence on the Web".[3] The company has licensed natural language technology from PARC, the former Xerox Palo Alto Research Center.[4] On May 11, 2008, the company unveiled a tool for searching a fixed subset of English Wikipedia using conversational phrases rather than keywords.[5] Contents 1 Powerlabs 2 People 3 Investors 4 See also 5 References 6 External links Powerlabs[edit] In a form of beta testing, Powerset opened an online community called Powerlabs on September 17, 2007. Business Week said: "The company hopes the site will marshal thousands of people to help build and improve its search engine before it goes public next year."[6] Said The New York Times: "[Powerset Labs] goes far beyond the 'alpha' or 'beta' testing involved in most software projects, when users put a new product through rigorous testing to find its flaws. Powerset doesn’t have a product yet, but rather a collection of promising natural language technologies, which are the fruit of years of research at Xerox PARC."[7] Powerlabs' initial search results are taken from Wikipedia.[8] People[edit] Barney Pell (born March 18, 1968, in Hollywood, California)[9] was co-founder and CEO of Powerset. Pell received his bachelor of science degree in symbolic systems from Stanford University in 1989, where he graduated Phi Beta Kappa and was a National Merit Scholar. Pell received a PhD in computer science from Cambridge University in 1993, where he was a Marshall Scholar.[10] He has worked at NASA, as chief strategist and vice president of business development at StockMaster.com (acquired by Red Herring in March, 2000) and at Whizbang! Labs. Prior to joining Powerset, Pell was an Entrepreneur-in-Residence at Mayfield Fund, a venture capital firm in Silicon Valley.[11] Pell is also a founder of Moon Express, Inc., a U.S. company awarded a $10M commercial lunar contract by NASA and a competitor in the Google Lunar X PRIZE.[12] Steve Newcomb was the COO and co-founder of Powerset. Prior to joining Powerset, he was a co-founder of Loudfire, General Manager at Promptu, and was on the board of directors at Jaxtr. He left Powerset in October 2007 to form Virgance, a social startup incubator. Lorenzo Thione (born in Como, Italy) was the product architect and co-founder of Powerset. Prior to joining Powerset, he worked at FXPAL[11] in natural language processing and related research fields. Thione earned his master's degree in software engineering from the University of Texas at Austin.[11] Ronald Kaplan, former manager of research in Natural Language Theory and Technology at PARC, served as the company's CTO and CSO.[13] Ryan Ferrier is a member of the founding team of Powerset. He managed personnel and internal operations. After 2008 he went on to co-found Serious Business, which made Facebook applications and was later bought by Zynga. Another Powerset alumnus, Alex Le, became CTO of Serious Business and went on to become an executive producer at Zynga when it bought the company. Siqi Chen founded a stealth startup in mobile computing after leaving Powerset.[14] Investors[edit] Powerset attracted a wide range of investors, many of whom had considerable experience in the venture capital field.[15] The company received $12.5 million in Series A funding during November 2007, co-led by the venture capital firms Foundation Capital and The Founders Fund.[16][17] Among the better-known investors: Esther Dyson, founding chairman of ICANN, founder of the newsletter Release 1.0 and editor at Cnet Peter Thiel, founder and former CEO of PayPal Luke Nosek, founder of PayPal Reid Hoffman, executive vice president of PayPal and founder of LinkedIn First Round Capital, seed-stage venture firm See also[edit] Bing (search engine) References[edit] ^ Helft, Miguel (2007-01-01). "In Silicon Valley, the Race Is On to Trump Google". The New York Times. ^ Powerset Blog : Microsoft to Acquire Powerset Archived July 2, 2008, at the Wayback Machine ^ "Powerset Blog: Powerset launches Powerset Labs at TechCrunch40". Archived from the original on October 30, 2007. Retrieved 2008-03-04. ^ Helft, Miguel (2007-02-09). "In a Search Refinement, a Chance to Rival Google". The New York Times. ^ Powerset Debuts With Search of Wikipedia - NYTimes.com. Bits.blogs.nytimes.com. Retrieved on 2013-07-21. ^ Hof, Robert (2007-09-17). "Powerset: Move Over, Google". Business Week. ^ Helft, Miguel (2007-09-17). "Powerset to Skeptics: Try Us". The New York Times. ^ Kopytoff, Verne (2007-09-17). "Power is turned on, a bit, at Powerset". SFgate.com (San Francisco Chronicle). ^ "Barney Pell's Personal History". Archived from the original on October 14, 2006. Retrieved 2008-02-16. ^ "Barney Pell's Weblog". Archived from the original on 2008-02-28. Retrieved 2008-02-16. ^ a b c "Powerset Founders". Archived from the original on 2007-10-27. Retrieved 2008-02-16. ^ "MoonEx aims to scour moon for rare materials". Los Angeles Times. 2011-04-08. Retrieved 2011-04-10. MoonEx's machines are designed to look for materials that are scarce on Earth but found in everything from a Toyota Prius car battery to guidance systems on cruise missiles. ... The company is among several teams hoping to someday win the Google Lunar X Prize competition, a $30-million race to the moon in which a privately-funded team must successfully place a robot on the moon's surface and have it explore at least 1/3 of a mile. It also must transmit high definition video and images back to Earth before 2016. ... should be ready to land on the lunar surface by 2013 ^ Powerset press release, 2007-03-17 Archived October 28, 2007, at the Wayback Machine ^ Robin Wauters (2010-02-11). "Zynga Buys Social Gaming Startup Serious Business". Retrieved 2013-04-12. ^ Powerset press release, 2006-11-02 Archived April 20, 2008, at the Wayback Machine ^ Powerset press release, November 2007 Archived April 20, 2008, at the Wayback Machine ^ PARC press release, 2007 Archived May 12, 2008, at the Wayback Machine External links[edit] Powerset main web site - redirects to Bing v t e Microsoft History Outline People Founders Bill Gates Paul Allen Board of directors John W. Thompson (Chairman) Satya Nadella (CEO) Charles Noski Helmut Panke John W. Stanton Reid Hoffman Sandi Peterson Penny Pritzker Charles Scharf Arne Sorenson Padmasree Warrior Senior leadership team Satya Nadella (CEO) Scott Guthrie Amy Hood (CFO) Harry Shum Phil Spencer Corporate VPs Joe Belfiore Richard Rashid (SVP) S. Somasegar (SVP) César Cernuda Products Hardware Azure Kinect HoloLens LifeCam LifeChat Surface Hub Go Laptop Pro Studio Duo Neo Xbox Operating systems Windows Xbox OS Software Office Office 365 Mobile Servers Visual Studio Programming languages BASIC VB.NET VBA VBScript Visual Basic C# F# PowerShell TypeScript Web properties Azure Bing Channel 9 CodePlex Developer Network Docs MSN Mixer Office.com OneDrive Outlook.com Store TechNet Translator Company Conferences Build Ignite Inspire (formerly TechEd) MIX PDC WinHEC Divisions Engineering groups Mobile Skype unit Digital Crimes Unit Garage Press Research .NET Foundation Outercurve Foundation Xbox Game Studios Estates Microsoft Redmond campus Microsoft Algeria Microsoft Egypt Microsoft India Microsoft Japan Microsoft Theater Campaigns Where do you want to go today? (1994) Champagne (2002) Mojave Experiment (2006) I'm a PC (2008) Scroogled (2012) Criticism Bundling of Microsoft Windows Clippy iLoo Internet Explorer Microsoft Bob _NSAKEY Windows XP Vista 10 Litigation Alcatel-Lucent v. Microsoft Apple v. Microsoft European Union Microsoft competition case Microsoft v. Lindows Microsoft v. MikeRoweSoft Microsoft v. Shah United States v. Microsoft (2001 antitrust case) Microsoft Ireland case Acquisitions 6Wunderkinder Altamira Software AltspaceVR aQuantive Azyxxi The Blue Ribbon SoundWorks Beam Bungie Calista Technologies Colloquis Connectix Consumers Software Danger Farecast FASA Studio Fast Search & Transfer Firefly Forethought GIANT Company Software GitHub GreenButton Groove Networks High Heat Major League Baseball Hotmail Jellyfish.com LinkedIn LinkExchange Lionhead Studios Maluuba Massive Incorporated Mobile Data Labs Mojang Nokia Devices and Services Onfolio Pando Networks Perceptive Pixel PlaceWare Powerset ProClarity Rare Revolution Analytics ScreenTonic Secure Islands Simplygon Skype Sunrise Atelier SwiftKey Winternals Software Teleo Telekinesys Research Tellme Networks Twisted Pixel Games Vermeer Technologies Visio Corporation Vivaty VoloMetrix VXtreme WebTV Networks Xamarin Yammer Yupi Category v t e Web search engines Active AOL Ahmia Ask.com Baidu Bing Blackle Dogpile DuckDuckGo Ecosia Exalead Excite Fireball GenieKnows Gigablast Google HotBot Info.com Kiddle KidRex KidzSearch Lycos MetaGer Mojeek Naver Qwant Parsijoo SAPO Searx Seznam.cz Sogou Sputnik Startpage Swisscows WebCrawler YaCy Yahoo! Yandex Yippy Yooz Youdao Inactive 123people A9.com Aliweb AlltheWeb AltaVista Blekko Boogami Cuil Empas Forestle Go.com Infoseek Inktomi Ixquick JumpStation LeapFish Mugurdy Northern Light Powerset Scroogle SearchMe Soso Teoma Viewzi Vivisimo Volunia W3Catalog Wikiseek Yebol Comparison Complete list Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Powerset_(company)&oldid=929939652" Categories: Internet search engines Companies based in San Francisco Natural language processing Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Wikipedia articles in need of updating from December 2015 All Wikipedia articles in need of updating Pages using deprecated image syntax Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Deutsch Français Italiano ??? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 9 December 2019, at 06:03 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Nathan@Joseph.gov.ca
