Public Knowledge - Wikipedia Public Knowledge From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Not to be confused with Public Knowledge Project, a non-profit. ‹ The template Infobox organization is being considered for merging. › Public Knowledge Formation 2001, U.S. Type Non-profit organization Purpose Communications Law & Policy, Intellectual Property, Technology Policy Headquarters Washington, District of Columbia, U.S. Website www.publicknowledge.org Public Knowledge is a non-profit Washington, D.C.-based public interest group that is involved in intellectual property law, competition, and choice in the digital marketplace, and an open standards/end-to-end internet. Contents 1 History 2 Board of directors 3 See also 4 References 5 External links History[edit] Public Knowledge was founded by David Bollier and Gigi Sohn. Chris Lewis is president and CEO, and its directors include Internet Archive Director and Co-founder Brewster Kahle, University of Pennsylvania professor Kevin Werbach, and former FCC Commissioner Michael J. Copps.[1] [2] Public Knowledge's work focuses on the three 'IP's of communications and copyright policy: information policy, intellectual property, and Internet Protocol. The group is known for its advocacy for copyright defenses and exemptions such as fair use and against the expansion of copyright in general. For instance, in response to the FCC's attempt to mandate a broadcast flag for all digital TV tuners, Public Knowledge led the successful legal campaign to have the rule overturned.[3][4][5] One study of the politics of digital rights management policy concluded, "Since its 2001 founding, Public Knowledge has risen to prominence as the pre-eminent DC-based policy advocacy organization within the strong fair use coalition."[6] Board of directors[edit] The following individuals are on the board as of February 2020.[7] Virginia Lam Abrams - Senior Vice President of Starry, Inc., operators of Starry Internet Moses Boyd - Founding Partner of Integrated Solutions Group Michael J. Copps - Former FCC Commissioner, Special Adviser to the Media and Democracy Reform Initiative at Common Cause Maura Colleton Corbett - President and Founder of Glen Echo Group Laurent Crenshaw - Senior Director of Policy, Eaze Brewster Kahle - Internet Archive, Digital Librarian, Director and Co-founder Andrew McLaughlin - Partner, betaworks; Co-founder and Partner, Higher Ground Labs Michael Petricone - Senior VP of Government Affairs at Consumer Technology Association Frank C. Torres, III - Director of Consumer Affairs and Senior Policy Counsel, Microsoft Kevin Werbach - Professor at The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania Former Directors Hal Abelson - Professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology Leah Belsky - VP of Strategic Development and Assoc. GC of Kaltura David Bollier - Writer and activist Hal Bringman - Founder and President of NVPR[8] Susan Crawford - Professor, University of Michigan Law School Jesse Dylan - Founder, Wondros Lawrence Lessig - Writer, Activist, Professor at Stanford Law School Warrington Hudlin - Founder, dvRepublic Hon. Reed Hundt - Senior Advisor at McKinsey & Company Joichi Ito - Former Director at MIT Media Lab Laurie Racine - Founder, Managing Director, Startl Gigi B. Sohn - Counselor to former Federal Communications Commission Chairman Tom Wheeler; Founder, Public Knowledge Jonathan Taplin - Adjunct Professor, USC Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism Kathleen Wallman - President, Wallman Consulting LLC See also[edit] Copyleft Creative Commons Digital rights Fair use Free culture movement Net neutrality law References[edit] ^ "Board". Public Knowledge. 2020. Retrieved 2020-02-27. ^ "Staff". Public Knowledge. 2020. Retrieved 2020-02-27. ^ Labaton, Stephen (October 27, 2003). "Rules near on TV piracy; Critics press their case". The New York Times. p. C5. ^ Zeller Jr., Tom (February 21, 2005). "Federal effort to head off TV piracy is challenged". The New York Times. pp. C5. ^ Labaton, Stephen (May 7, 2005). "Antipiracy rule for broadcasts is struck down". The New York Times. p. A2. ^ Herman, Bill D. (2009). "The Battle over Digital Rights Management: A Multi-Method Study of the Politics of Copyright Management Technologies". Bill D. Herman, Annenberg School for Communication, University of Pennsylvania: 87. SSRN 1357203. Cite journal requires |journal= (help) ^ "Board of Directors". Public Knowledge. Retrieved 2020-02-27. ^ "Public Knowledge Appoints NVPR President To Board of Directors". Public Knowledge. December 11, 2012. Archived from the original on January 4, 2013. Retrieved 2014-02-04. External links[edit] Public Knowledge v t e Intellectual property activism Issues Artificial scarcity Copyright infringement Copyright troll Digital rights management Gripe site Legal aspects of file sharing Mashup digital music videos Monopolies of knowledge Music piracy Orphan works Patents biological software software patent debate trolling Public domain Concepts All rights reversed Alternative compensation system Anti-copyright notice Business models for open-source software Copyleft Commercial use of copyleft works Commons-based peer production Electronic sell-through Free content Free software license Libertarian positions Open content Open-design movement Open Music Model Open patent Open-source Open-source hardware Open-source software Prize system contests Share-alike Video on demand Movements Access to Knowledge movement Anti-copyright Cultural environmentalism Free-culture movement Free software movement Organizations Pro-copyright Copyright Alliance Pro-copyleft Creative Commons Electronic Frontier Foundation Free Software Foundation Open Rights Group Organization for Transformative Works The Pirate Bay Piratbyrån Pirate Party Public Knowledge Sci-Hub Students for Free Culture People Cory Doctorow Alexandra Elbakyan Rick Falkvinge Lawrence Lessig Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Documentaries Steal This Film (2006, 2007) Good Copy Bad Copy (2007) RiP!: A Remix Manifesto (2008) TPB AFK: The Pirate Bay Away From Keyboard (2013) The Internet's Own Boy (2014) Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Public_Knowledge&oldid=947554374" Categories: Intellectual property activism Intellectual property organizations Political advocacy groups in the United States Organizations based in Washington, D.C. Hidden categories: CS1 errors: missing periodical Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Français Italiano ??? Edit links This page was last edited on 27 March 2020, at 00:48 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
