PubMed Central - Wikipedia PubMed Central From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Repository of scholarly manuscripts that are free to read PubMed Central Producer United States National Library of Medicine (United States) History 2000 to present Access Cost Free Coverage Disciplines Medicine Record depth Index, abstract & full-text Format coverage Journal articles Links Website Title list PubMed Central (PMC) is a free digital repository that archives publicly accessible full-text scholarly articles that have been published within the biomedical and life sciences journal literature. As one of the major research databases within the suite of resources that have been developed by the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), PubMed Central is much more than just a document repository. Submissions into PMC undergo an indexing and formatting procedure which results in enhanced metadata, medical ontology, and unique identifiers which all enrich the XML structured data for each article on deposit.[1] Content within PMC can easily be interlinked to many other NCBI databases and accessed via Entrez search and retrieval systems, further enhancing the public's ability to freely discover, read and build upon this portfolio of biomedical knowledge.[2] PubMed Central is very distinct from PubMed.[3] PubMed Central is a free digital archive of full articles, accessible to anyone from anywhere via a web browser (with varying provisions for reuse). Conversely, although PubMed is a searchable database of biomedical citations and abstracts, the full-text article physically resides elsewhere (in print or online, free or behind a subscriber paywall). As of December 2018[update], the PMC archive contained over 5.2 million articles,[4] with contributions coming directly from publishers or authors depositing their own manuscripts into the repository per the NIH Public Access Policy. Older data shows that from Jan 2013 to Jan 2014 author-initiated deposits exceeded 103,000 papers during this 12-month period.[5] PMC also identifies about 4,000 journals which now participate in some capacity to automatically deposit their published content into the PMC repository.[6] Some participating publishers will delay the release of their articles on PubMed Central for a set time after publication, this is often referred to as an "embargo period", and can range from a few months to a few years depending on the journal. (Embargoes of six to twelve months are the most common.) However, PubMed Central is a key example of "systematic external distribution by a third party"[7] which is still prohibited by the contributor agreements of many publishers. Contents 1 Adoption 2 Technology 3 Reception 4 PMCID 5 See also 6 References 7 External links Adoption[edit] See also: NIH Public Access Policy Launched in February 2000, the repository has grown rapidly as the NIH Public Access Policy is designed to make all research funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) freely accessible to anyone, and, in addition, many publishers are working cooperatively with the NIH to provide free access to their works. In late 2007, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2008 (H.R. 2764) was signed into law and included a provision requiring the NIH to modify its policies and require inclusion into PubMed Central complete electronic copies of their peer-reviewed research and findings from NIH-funded research. These articles are required to be included within 12 months of publication. This is the first time the US government has required an agency to provide open access to research and is an evolution from the 2005 policy, in which the NIH asked researchers to voluntarily add their research to PubMed Central.[8] A UK version of the PubMed Central system, UK PubMed Central (UKPMC), has been developed by the Wellcome Trust and the British Library as part of a nine-strong group of UK research funders. This system went live in January 2007. On 1 November 2012, it became Europe PubMed Central. The Canadian member of the PubMed Central International network, PubMed Central Canada, was launched in October 2009. The National Library of Medicine "NLM Journal Publishing Tag Set" journal article markup language is freely available.[9] The Association of Learned and Professional Society Publishers comments that "it is likely to become the standard for preparing scholarly content for both books and journals".[10] A related DTD is available for books.[11] The Library of Congress and the British Library have announced support for the NLM DTD.[12] It has also been popular with journal service providers.[13] With the release of public access plans for many agencies beyond NIH, PMC is in the process of becoming the repository for a wider variety of articles.[14] This includes NASA content, with the interface branded as "PubSpace".[15][16] Technology[edit] Articles are sent to PubMed Central by publishers in XML or SGML, using a variety of article DTDs. Older and larger publishers may have their own established in-house DTDs, but many publishers use the NLM Journal Publishing DTD (see above). Received articles are converted via XSLT to the very similar NLM Archiving and Interchange DTD. This process may reveal errors that are reported back to the publisher for correction. Graphics are also converted to standard formats and sizes. The original and converted forms are archived. The converted form is moved into a relational database, along with associated files for graphics, multimedia, or other associated data. Many publishers also provide PDF of their articles, and these are made available without change.[17] Bibliographic citations are parsed and automatically linked to the relevant abstracts in PubMed, articles in PubMed Central, and resources on publishers' Web sites. PubMed links also lead to PubMed Central. Unresolvable references, such as to journals or particular articles not yet available at one of these sources, are tracked in the database and automatically come "live" when the resources become available. An in-house indexing system provides search capability, and is aware of biological and medical terminology, such as generic vs. proprietary drug names, and alternate names for organisms, diseases and anatomical parts. When a user accesses a journal issue, a table of contents is automatically generated by retrieving all articles, letters, editorials, etc. for that issue. When an actual item such as an article is reached, PubMed Central converts the NLM markup to HTML for delivery, and provides links to related data objects. This is feasible because the variety of incoming data has first been converted to standard DTDs and graphic formats. In a separate submission stream, NIH-funded authors may deposit articles into PubMed Central using the NIH Manuscript Submission (NIHMS). Articles thus submitted typically go through XML markup in order to be converted to NLM DTD. Reception[edit] Reactions to PubMed Central among the scholarly publishing community range between a genuine enthusiasm by some,[18] to cautious concern by others.[19] While PMC is a welcome partner to open access publishers in its ability to augment the discovery and dissemination of biomedical knowledge, that same truth causes others to worry about traffic being diverted from the published version-of-record, the economic consequences of less readership, as well as the effect on maintaining a community of scholars within learned societies.[20][21] A 2013 analysis found strong evidence that public repositories of published articles were responsible for "drawing significant numbers of readers away from journal websites" and that "the effect of PMC is growing over time".[22] Libraries, universities, open access supporters, consumer health advocacy groups, and patient rights organizations have applauded PubMed Central, and hope to see similar public access repositories developed by other federal funding agencies so to freely share any research publications that were the result of taxpayer support.[23] The Antelman study of open access publishing found that in philosophy, political science, electrical and electronic engineering and mathematics, open access papers had a greater research impact.[24] A randomised trial found an increase in content downloads of open access papers, with no citation advantage over subscription access one year after publication.[25] The NIH policy and open access repository work has inspired a 2013 presidential directive which has sparkled action in other federal agencies as well. PMCID[edit] The PMCID (PubMed Central identifier), also known as the PMC reference number, is a bibliographic identifier for the PubMed Central database, much like the PMID is the bibliographic identifier for the PubMed database. The two identifiers are distinct however. It consists of "PMC" followed by a string of seven numbers. The format is:[26] PMCID: PMC1852221 Authors applying for NIH awards must include the PMCID in their application. See also[edit] Europe PubMed Central JATS (technology) MEDLINE, an international literature database of life sciences and biomedical information PMID (PubMed Identifier) PubMed Central Canada Redalyc (similar project focused on Latin America) SciELO (similar service) References[edit] ^ Beck J (2010). "Report from the Field: PubMed Central, an XML-based Archive of Life Sciences Journal Articles". Proceedings of the International Symposium on XML for the Long Haul: Issues in the Long-term Preservation of XML. 6. doi:10.4242/BalisageVol6.Beck01. ISBN 978-1-935958-02-4. ^ Maloney C, Sequeira E, Kelly C, Orris R, Beck J (5 December 2013). PubMed Central. National Center for Biotechnology Information (US). ^ "MEDLINE, PubMed, and PMC (PubMed Central): How are they different?". www.nlm.nih.gov. 9 September 2019. ^ "Openness by Default", Inside Higher Ed, 16 January 2017. ^ "NIHMS Statistics". nihms.nih.gov. ^ "Home - PMC - NCBI". www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov. ^ Ouerfelli N. "Author rights: what's it all about" (PDF). ^ "Public access to NIH research made law". Science Codex. 2007. Archived from the original on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 6 November 2013. ^ "Journal Publishing Tag Set". National Center for Biotechnology Information. Retrieved 6 November 2013. ^ French D (4 August 2006). "ALPSP Technology Update: A Standard XML Document Format: The case for the adoption of NLM DTD". ALPSP. Retrieved 6 November 2013. ^ "NCBI Book Tag Set". dtd.nlm.nih.gov. ^ "News from the Library of Congress". Library of Congress. 19 April 2006. Retrieved 6 November 2013. ^ "Inera Inc. - NLM DTD Resources". archive.org. 19 February 2013. ^ "Public Access Plans of U.S. Federal Agencies". cendi.gov. ^ Kovo Y (22 July 2016). "Public Access to Results of NASA-Funded Research". nasa.gov. ^ "NASA in PMC". preview.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov. ^ NLM Journal Archiving and Interchange Tag Suite, National Center for Biotechnical Information, National Library of Medicine ^ PLOS Applauds Congress for Action on Open Access ^ "ACS Submission to the Office of Science and Technology Policy Request for Information on Public Access to Peer-Reviewed Scholarly Publications Resulting from Federally Funded Research" (PDF). whitehouse.gov. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-07-11. Retrieved 2014-02-07. ^ Davis PM (October 2012). "The effect of public deposit of scientific articles on readership". The Physiologist. 55 (5): 161, 163–5. PMID 23155924. ^ Davis PM (July 2013). "Public accessibility of biomedical articles from PubMed Central reduces journal readership--retrospective cohort analysis". FASEB Journal. 27 (7): 2536–41. doi:10.1096/fj.13-229922. PMC 3688741. PMID 23554455. ^ Davis PM (July 2013). "Public accessibility of biomedical articles from PubMed Central reduces journal readership--retrospective cohort analysis". FASEB Journal. 27 (7): 2536–41. doi:10.1096/fj.13-229922. PMC 3688741. PMID 23554455. ^ "Autism Speaks Announces New Policy to Give Families Easy, Free Access to Key Research Findings - Press Release - Autism Speaks". www.autismspeaks.org. 25 July 2012. ^ Antelman, Kristin (2004). "Do Open-Access Articles Have a Greater Research Impact?". College & Research Libraries. 65 (5): 372–382. doi:10.5860/crl.65.5.372. , summarized by Stemper J, Williams K (2006). "Scholarly communication: Turning crisis into opportunity". College & Research Libraries News. 67 (11): 692–696. doi:10.5860/crln.67.11.7720. ^ Davis PM, Lewenstein BV, Simon DH, Booth JG, Connolly MJ (July 2008). "Open access publishing, article downloads, and citations: randomised controlled trial". BMJ. 337: a568. doi:10.1136/bmj.a568. PMC 2492576. PMID 18669565. ^ "Include PMCID in Citations | publicaccess.nih.gov". publicaccess.nih.gov. Retrieved 2017-07-01. External links[edit] Wikidata has the property: PMCID (P932) (see uses) Official website National Institutes of Health Submission System (NIHMS) NIH Public Access Policy v t e Academic publishing Journals Academic journal Scientific journal Open access journal Public health journal Papers Scholarly paper Review article Position paper Working paper Literature review Other types of publication Thesis (Collection of articles, Monograph) Specialized patent (biological, chemical) Book Book chapter Technical report Pamphlet Essay White paper Preprint Poster session Lab notes Abstract Impact and ranking Altmetrics Article-level metrics Bibliometrics Citation impact Citation index Journal ranking Eigenfactor h-index Impact factor SCImago Journal Rank Scientometrics Reform Academic journal publishing reform Full-text-on-the-Net bias (FUTON bias) Open access Serials crisis Sci-Hub Indexes and search engines Google Scholar PubMed PubMed Central Scopus Web of Science CiteSeerX Scirus (defunct) Related topics Imprint Scientific writing Peer review Proceedings Grey literature Scientific literature Learned society Open research Open science data ORCID Electronic publishing Ingelfinger rule Lists Academic journals Scientific journals Open-access journals Academic databases and search engines University presses Style/formatting guides Category:Academic publishing Category:Scientific documents Portal Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=PubMed_Central&oldid=940281083" Categories: Biological databases Bibliographic databases and indexes National Institutes of Health Open-access archives Medical databases Full text scholarly online databases Hidden categories: Articles with short description Articles containing potentially dated statements from December 2018 All articles containing potentially dated statements Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? Bosanski Català Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? ????? Français Galego ??? ??????? Hrvatski Ilokano Bahasa Indonesia ???????? Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål ????? Polski Português Român? ??????? Scots Simple English Slovenš?ina ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Svenska ????? ??? ?????? ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t Edit links This page was last edited on 11 February 2020, at 16:22 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Charles@Frank.info
