QRpedia - Wikipedia QRpedia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search QR codes linking to Wikipedia articles QRpedia A QRpedia code which resolves as the URL http://en.qrwp.org/QRpedia, used widely as the logo Screenshot The QRpedia website, showing a QR code, which decodes as the URL http://en.qrwp.org/QRpedia Available in Multilingual Created by Terence Eden Roger Bamkin URL qrpedia.org Commercial No Registration None Launched 9 April 2011; 8 years ago (2011-04-09) Current status Online Content license MIT License QRpedia is a mobile Web-based system which uses QR codes to deliver Wikipedia articles to users, in their preferred language.[1][2][3] A typical use is on museum labels, linking to Wikipedia articles about the exhibited object. QR codes can easily be generated to link directly to any Uniform Resource Identifier (URI), but the QRpedia system adds further functionality. It is owned and operated by a subsidiary of Wikimedia UK (WMUK). QRpedia was conceived by Roger Bamkin, a Wikipedia volunteer, coded by Terence Eden, and unveiled in April 2011. It is in use at museums and other institutions in countries including Australia, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, North Macedonia, Spain, India, the United Kingdom, Germany, Ukraine and the United States. The project's source code is freely reusable under the MIT License. Contents 1 Process 2 Origins 3 Implementations 4 Award 5 Wikimedia UK dispute 6 See also 7 References 8 External links Process[edit] Visitors to Derby Museum using a mobile phone to scan a QRpedia QR code When a user scans a QRpedia QR code on their mobile device, the device decodes the QR code into a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) using the domain name "languagecode.qrwp.org" and whose path (final part) is the title of a Wikipedia article, and sends a request for the article specified in the URL to the QRpedia web server. It also transmits the language setting of the device.[4] The QRpedia server then uses Wikipedia's API[1] to determine whether there is a version of the specified Wikipedia article in the language used by the device, and if so, returns it in a mobile-friendly format.[4] If there is no version of the article available in the preferred language, then the QRpedia server offers a choice of the available languages, or a Google translation. In this way, one QRcode can deliver the same article in many languages,[4] even when the museum is unable to make its own translations. QRpedia also records usage statistics.[4][5] Origins[edit] QRpedia was conceived by Roger Bamkin,[1][6] a Wikipedia volunteer, and Terence Eden,[1] a mobile web consultant,[7] and was unveiled on 9 April 2011[1][8] at Derby Museum and Art Gallery's Backstage Pass event,[1][7] part of the "GLAM/Derby" collaboration between the museum and Wikipedia,[9] during which over 1,200 Wikipedia articles, in several languages, were also created.[10] The project's name is a portmanteau word, combining the initials "QR" from "QR (Quick Response) code" and "pedia" from "Wikipedia".[11] The project's source code is freely reusable under the MIT License.[12] Implementations[edit] Derby Museum's label for the painting "A Philosopher Lecturing on the Orrery" features a QRpedia code linking to the Wikipedia article about it which, as of February 2012, was available in 19 languages. A label in The Children's Museum of Indianapolis that uses a QRpedia code to direct visitors to the Wikipedia article "Broad Ripple Park Carousel" Ceramic plaque with QRpedia code for Shire Hall, as part of the MonmouthpediA project. Enamel sign with QRpedia code for Church of the Nativity of the Virgin Mary in Záb?hlice, Prague, Czech Republic Play media Film showing the use of QRpedia codes in a touch table populated with Wikipedia articles related to the period 1600-1650 and with coordinates. The table is used in the exhibition Samtidigt/Meanwhile, at the Vasa museum in Stockholm, Sweden. A QRpedia plaque in Skopje Zoo, Macedonia, showing info on a hamadryas baboon (Papio hamadryas) using a mixed approach A QRpedia plaque in Satyagraha House, Johannesburg South Africa Though created in the United Kingdom, QRpedia can be used in any location where the user's phone or tablet has a data signal (or remembers URLs until a signal is available) and is in use at venues including: Children's Chapel, St James' Church, Sydney The Children's Museum of Indianapolis, United States[2][13] Congressional Cemetery[14] Derby Museum and Art Gallery, England[4] Estonian Sports Museum Galleries of Justice Museum Fundació Joan Miró, Spain[4][15] including a travelling exhibit shown at The Tate[4] The Welsh town of Monmouth, as part of Wikipedia's MonmouthpediA project.[16] The National Archives, United Kingdom[17][18] The National Museum of Computing (UK)[19] The New Art Gallery Walsall Different monuments in Prague 10[20] Skopje Zoo, Macedonia, using a mixed approach of ordinary QR-codes and QRpedia codes[21] St Paul's Church, Birmingham[citation needed] QRpedia also has uses outside of such institutions. For example, the Occupy movement uses it on campaign posters.[22] Award[edit] In January 2012, QRpedia was one of four projects (from 79 entrants) declared the most innovative mobile companies in the UK of 2011 by the Smart UK Project, and thus chosen to compete at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, on 29 February 2012.[19] The criteria were "to be effective, easy to understand and with global potential and impact".[23] Wikimedia UK dispute[edit] A conflict of interest case involving QRpedia was identified as one of the "main incidents" leading to a 2012 review of the governance of Wikimedia UK (WMUK). The review found that the amount of time taken to resolve ownership caused the risk of outsiders perceiving a potential conflict of interest, and that Bamkin's acceptance of consultancy fees on projects (jointly funded by WMUK) involving QRpedia provided an opportunity for damage to the reputation of WMUK. This conflict of interest led to the resignation of WMUK trustee Joscelyn Upendran.[24] Shortly before her resignation on 31 August 2012, Upendran stated that "the charity has in effect agreed to take on responsibility [...] for a service that is 'co-owned' by a trustee", and suggested that "the conflict of interest may present a legal risk under charity and corporate law".[25] On 9 February 2013, WMUK announced that the intellectual property in QRpedia, and the qrpedia.org and qrwp.org domains, were to be transferred to the chapter at no cost.[26] On 12 February 2013, two QRpedia related domain names were registered on behalf of WMUK.[27] On 2 April 2013, WMUK announced that Roger Bamkin and Terence Eden were transferring ownership of QRpedia to Wikimedia UK.[28] On 16 November 2013, WMUK announced that the agreement for the transfer had been signed and the IP rights in QRpedia were held by Cultural Outreach Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of WMUK, and that following the agreement, the transfer of the domain names was an administrative process that could begin immediately.[29] At least one Wikimedia chapter has received letters alleging that QRpedia infringes various patents.[30] Though WMUK believes that this is not the case and that the risk of litigation is not high, Cultural Outreach Limited has been set up to hold QRpedia, in order to shield WMUK should such a challenge arise.[31] See also[edit] Amarapedia Monmouthpedia Gibraltarpedia Freopedia List of online encyclopedias Toodyaypedia References[edit] ^ a b c d e f Eden, Terence (2011-04-03). "Introducing QRpedia". Retrieved 25 August 2011. ^ a b Anon (2011-08-19). "The Children's Museum of Indianapolis Creates New Learning Opportunities through Wikipedian-in-Residence". The Children's Museum of Indianapolis. Archived from the original on 29 March 2012. Retrieved 25 August 2011. ^ Johnson, L.; Adams, S. (2011). The Technology Outlook for UK Tertiary Education 2011-201 (PDF). NMC Horizon Report Regional Analyses. Austin, Texas: The New Media Consortium. ISBN 978-0-615-38209-8. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2011-10-05. ^ a b c d e f g Byrd Phillips, Lori (2011-06-15). "Going Multilingual with QRpedia". Marcus Institute for Digital Education in the Arts. Archived from the original on 26 August 2012. Retrieved 25 August 2011. ^ "QRpedia Statistics (example)". Archived from the original on 13 July 2012. Retrieved 12 December 2011. ^ Bamkin, Roger. "Three days of Action - QR codes at Derby Museum and Art Gallery". Wikimedia Foundation. Retrieved 17 February 2012. ^ a b Anon (2011-05-21). "Quiet Realities". Imperica. Archived from the original on 2012-08-26. Retrieved 25 August 2011. ^ Various. "Wikipedia:GLAM/Derby/QR code experiment". Wikipedia. Retrieved 25 August 2011. ^ Various. "Derby Backstage Pass". Wikimedia UK. Retrieved 25 August 2011. ^ Roger Bamkin, interviewed on BBC Radio Derby by Phil Trow, 2011-08-30 ^ Eden, Terence (2011-11-03). "QRpedia in Russia". Retrieved 25 November 2011. The 'QR', of course, standing for 'Quick Response'; The 'pedia' comes from 'Wikipedia' - which, itself, derives from Encyclopedia. ^ "qrwp — QR Redirection to Wikipedia". Google Project Hosting. Retrieved 25 August 2011. ^ Byrd Phillips, Lori (2011-07-29). "QR codes + Wikipedia = QRpedia". The Children's Museum of Indianapolis. Archived from the original on 26 September 2011. Retrieved 25 August 2011. ^ Greta Kreuz (17 July 2012). "Historic Congressional Cemetery Program to get Wikipedia boost". WLJA. Retrieved 21 July 2012. ^ Hinojo, Alex (2011-05-11). "QRpedia Codes at Fundació Joan Miró". The GLAM-Wiki Experience. Archived from the original on 26 August 2012. Retrieved 25 August 2011. ^ "Monmouth to be Wales' first WiFi town". Monmouth Today. 2012-02-29. Retrieved 1 March 2012. ^ "New collaboration between Wikimedia UK and The National Archives". The National Archives (United Kingdom). 2011-09-15. Retrieved 16 September 2011. ^ Eden, Terence (2011-09-18). "National Archives and QRpedia". Retrieved 18 September 2011. ^ a b "Become an instant expert with a little help from your mobile". Smart UK Project. 2012-02-02. Archived from the original on 26 August 2012. Retrieved 2 February 2012. ^ "QRpedia a Praha 10: QR kód na každé památce". mobilmania.cz. 2012-09-30. Retrieved 1 October 2012. ^ Shared Knowledge projects: Skopje Zoo, Meta ^ "We Don't Make Demands: Posters". 2011-12-02. Retrieved 2 December 2011. ^ "Smart UK Project – the final four". Smart UK Project. Archived from the original on 18 June 2013. Retrieved 19 August 2013. ^ Young, Niki May (8 February 2013). "Wikimedia UK trustees have been 'too involved' to effectively govern charity". Archived from the original on February 11, 2013. Retrieved 2013-02-09. ^ "Review finds Wikipedia UK board needs major leadership overhaul". ^ Keating, Chris (2013-02-09). "QRpedia". Wikimedia UK. Retrieved 9 February 2013. ^ "User:Mike Peel/Wikimedia compensation". ^ "Announcement – QRpedia donated to Wikimedia UK - Wikimedia UK Blog". ^ "Difference between revisions of "Water cooler"". Archived from the original on 2013-11-19. ^ Chris Keating (7 June 2013). "QRpedia". Wikimediauk-l Archives. At least one Wikimedia chapter has received letters from people who purport that QRpedia infringes on various patents. ^ "[Wikimediauk-l] QRpedia". External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to QRpedia. QRpedia official website QRpedia statistics [change stem for other articles] Qrpedia project on GoogleCode QRpedia on the Outreach wiki v t e Wikipedia Overview (Outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing Criticism gender bias ideological bias racial bias Deletionism and inclusionism MediaWiki Notability Reliability Vandalism Predictions of the project's end Community Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Citation needed Edit-a-thon "Ignore all rules" policy List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikipedian in residence WikiConference North America Wikimania WikiProject Women in Red People Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Erik Möller Ira Brad Matetsky Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales Wikipedians Wikimedian of the Year History Bomis Logo Controversies U.S. Congressional staff edits Essjay controversy Seigenthaler biography incident Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Italian Wikipedia blackout English Wikipedia blackout Hillsborough Wikipedia posts MyWikiBiz Lsjbot VisualEditor Art+Feminism #1Lib1Ref Honors 2008 Quadriga award Wikipedia Monument 2015 Erasmus Prize 2015 Princess of Asturias Award References and analysis Cultural Bibliography Films Academic studies Listen to Wikipedia Wiki-Watch Wikipediocracy WikiScanner Wikipedia Review Mobile access Apps QRpedia Wapedia WikiNodes Wikipedia Zero Wikiwand Content use Books LLC Boundless (company) DBpedia Deletionpedia Kiwix WikiReader Science information Health information Similar projects Interpedia Nupedia Citizendium Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Everipedia Veropedia List of online encyclopedias List of wikis Related Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs Print Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) 274301 Wikipedia Viola wikipedia List Category v t e Derby Museum and Art Gallery Artists Francis Leggatt Chantrey Ernest Ellis Clark W. J. Coffee Derby Sketching Club Harry Fidler Harold Gresley Count Holtzendorff Richard Hurleston Alfred John Keene Henry Lark Pratt David Payne Ronald Pope Samuel Rayner Louise Rayner Thomas Smith William Tate Ernest Townsend George Turner Joseph Wright of Derby Geology Ashford Black Marble John Farey William Martin Matlockite John Mawe White Watson John Whitehurst Decorative arts Bonnie Prince Charlie Room Military history 9th/12th Royal Lancers William Goate Robert Kells Francis O. Grenfell David Rushe David Spence Gen. Johnson Saving Officer from Tomahawk Natural history Allenton hippo King of Rome William Richardson Linton William Hunt Painter Joseph Whittaker Joseph Wright paintings and drawings Richard Arkwright Grotto in the Gulf of Salerno A Philosopher Lecturing on the Orrery Indian Widow Romeo and Juliet: the Tomb Scene Miravan Breaking Open the Tomb of his Ancestors The Alchemist Discovering Phosphorus Virgil's Tomb The Blacksmith's Shop The Earthstopper A Philosopher by Lamplight Samuel Ward The Captive The Captive King Dovedale Thomas Borrow and Ann Borrow Vesuvius in Eruption Porcelain Chelsea porcelain factory Derby Porcelain Royal Crown Derby Pinxton Porcelain André Planché William Billingsley William Duesbury Ancient Britain Creswellian culture Derventio Strutt's Park Roman fort Derby Racecourse Roman settlement Hanson Log Boat Great Heathen Army Heath Wood barrow cemetery Codnor Castle Duffield Castle Icknield St. The Street The Long Lane Science and engineering Atlas Coelestis Benjamin Vulliamy Whitehurst & Son sundial Related Organisations Andrew Handyside & Co. British Rail Research Division Derby Philosophical Society Derby Exhibition (1839) People Alkmund P. P. Burdett D'Ewes Coke Erasmus Darwin 6th Duke of Devonshire James Ferguson Arthur Keily R. K. Freeman Alfred E. Goodey Sir George Harpur Crewe Llewellynn Jewitt John Lombe William Mundy Joseph Pickford 5th Earl Ferrers George Sorocold Joseph Strutt Charles Sylvester Derby Silk Mill (Lombe's Mill) Pickford's House Museum Central Library Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=QRpedia&oldid=936120981" Categories: Wikipedia Barcodes Free software Mobile Web Museum informatics Computer-related introductions in 2011 Hidden categories: Articles with short description All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from January 2019 Pages using div col with small parameter Commons category link from Wikidata Articles containing Spanish-language text Articles containing video clips Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Meta-Wiki Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans ??????? Asturianu ?????????? ????????? Català ?eština Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français ??? ??????? ?????? Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? Jawa Kiswahili Magyar ?????????? Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål ????? ?????? Polski Português Român? ??????? Shqip ????? Simple English ?????? / srpski Suomi Svenska Türkçe ?????????? ???? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 16 January 2020, at 20:33 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
