Racial bias on Wikipedia - Wikipedia Racial bias on Wikipedia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search The examples and perspective in this article deal primarily with U.S. and do not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (May 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (February 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Edit-a-thon for Black History Month at Howard University, a historically-black university Edit-a-thon for Visual Artists of the African Diaspora at the Joan Mitchell Center, hosted by Black Lunch Table in New Orleans The English Wikipedia has been criticized for having a systemic racial bias in its coverage, due to an under-representation of non-white people within its editor base.[1] The past president of Wikimedia D.C., James Hare, noted that "a lot of black history is left out" of Wikipedia, due to articles predominately being written by white editors.[2] Articles that do exist on African topics are, according to some, largely edited by editors from Europe and North America and thus reflect only their knowledge and consumption of media, which "tend to perpetuate a negative image" of Africa.[3] Maira Liriano of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, has argued that the lack of information regarding black history on Wikipedia "makes it seem like it's not important."[4] Part of a series on Discrimination General forms Age Caste Class Color Disability Genotype Culture/subculture Hair texture Height Language Looks Mental condition Race / Ethnicity / Nationality Rank Religion Sex Sexual orientation Size Species Specific forms   Social Acephobia AIDS stigma Adultism Anti-albinism Anti-autism Anti-homelessness Anti-intellectualism Anti-intersex Anti-left handedness Anti-Masonry Antisemitism (Judeophobia) Aporophobia Audism Biphobia Clannism Cronyism Drug use Elitism Ephebiphobia Fatism Gerontophobia Heteronormativity Heterosexism Homophobia Leprosy stigma Lesbophobia Misandry Misogyny Nepotism Pedophobia Perpetual foreigner Pregnancy Reverse Sectarianism Sexism Shadeism Supremacism Black White Transphobia Non-binary TERF Transmisogyny Vegaphobia Xenophobia Religious Ahmadiyya Atheism Bahá'í Faith Buddhism Catholicism Christianity Modern Hinduism Persecution Falun Gong Islam Persecution Judaism Persecution Jehovah's Witnesses LDS or Mormon Neopaganism Eastern Orthodox Oriental Orthodox Rastafarianism Protestantism Shia Sufism Zoroastrianism Ethnic/National Albanian African American Arab Armenian Australian Austrian British Catalan Chilean Croat Chinese Dutch English Estonian European Filipino Finnish French German Greek Haitian Hazara Hindu Hispanic Hungarian Igbo Indian Iranian or Persian Irish Israeli Italian Japanese Jewish Khmer Korean Kurdish Malay Mexican Middle Eastern Mongolian Pakistani Pashtun Polish Portuguese Quebec Romani Romanian Russian Scottish Serb Slav Somali Soviet Tatar Thai Turkish Ukrainian Vietnamese Western Manifestations Animal cruelty Animal industrial complex Animal testing Blood libel Blood sport Carnism Compulsory sterilization Counter-jihad Cultural genocide Democide Disability hate crime Educational Economic Eliminationism Employment Enemy of the people Ethnic cleansing Ethnic hatred Ethnic joke Ethnocide Forced conversion Freak show Gay bashing Gendercide Genital mutilation Genocide examples Glass ceiling Group libel Hate crime Hate group Hate speech Homeless dumping Housing Indian rolling LGBT hate crime Lavender scare Lynching Meat eating Mortgage Murder music Occupational segregation Persecution Pogrom Purge Race war Red Scare Religious persecution Scapegoating Segregation academy Sex-selective abortion Slavery Slut-shaming Religious terrorism Religious violence Religious war Trans bashing Victimisation Violence against women White flight White power music Wife selling Witch-hunt Policies Segregation age racial religious sexual Age of candidacy Blood purity Blood quantum Crime of apartheid Disabilities Jewish Catholic Ethnocracy Ethnopluralism Gender pay gap Gender roles Gerontocracy Gerrymandering Ghetto benches Internment Jewish quota Jim Crow laws Law for Protection of the Nation McCarthyism MSM Blood donation restrictions Nonpersons Numerus clausus (as religious or racial quota) Nuremberg Laws One-drop rule Racial quota Racial steering Redlining Same-sex marriage (laws and issues prohibiting) State atheism State religion Sodomy law Ugly law Voter suppression Countermeasures Affirmative action Animal rights Anti-discrimination law Cultural assimilation Cultural pluralism Diversity training Empowerment Feminism Fighting Discrimination Human rights Intersex rights LGBT rights Masculism Multiculturalism Nonviolence Racial integration Self-determination Social integration Toleration Vegetarianism Veganism Related topics Allophilia Anthropocentrism Anti-cultural sentiment Assimilation Bias Christian privilege Data discrimination Dehumanization Diversity Ethnic penalty Eugenics Intersectionality Madonna–whore complex Male privilege Masculism Multiculturalism Neurodiversity Oikophobia Oppression Police brutality Political correctness Polyculturalism Power distance Prejudice Racial bias in criminal news Racism by country Religious intolerance Second-generation gender bias Snobbery Social exclusion Social stigma Stereotype threat White privilege v t e Different theories have been provided to explain these racial discrepancies. Jay Cassano, writing for Fast Company magazine, argued that Wikipedia's small proportion of black editors is a result of the small black presence within the technology sector, and a relative lack of reliable access to the Internet.[4] Katherine Maher, executive director of the Wikimedia Foundation, has argued that the specific focuses in Wikipedia's content are representative of those of society as a whole. She said that Wikipedia could only represent that which was referenced in secondary sources, which historically have been favorable towards and focused on white men. When historically speaking- blacks or black Americans have made significant advances and achievements in society.[5] “Studies have shown that content on Wikipedia suffers from the bias of its editors – [who are] mainly technically inclined, English-speaking, white-collar men living in majority-Christian, developed countries in the Northern hemisphere”.[6] Contents 1 Analysis 2 Responses 3 See also 4 External links 5 References Analysis[edit] According to Maira Liriano, the associate chief librarian at New York City's Schomburg Center, one of the biggest challenges is getting new editors to keep editing Wikipedia after the edit-a-thon is over.[6] One challenge with retaining new editors is that the “[n]erdy white guys” who predominate as Wikipedia editors “…aren't always warm and nurturing” to new editors.[6] For example, when new editors add content on Black history, their content may be deleted by established editors. As well, when new editors are trying to advocate for the inclusion of Black history content on Wikipedia's talk pages (each article has an associated talk page for discussion of changes), the “[c]omments [to new editors] on [Wikipedia article] talk pages can be very blunt.”[6] An issue for women of colour is that “women in many communities have less leisure time than men,” according to Siko Bouterse, the director of community resources at the Wikimedia Foundation.[6] Another challenge for editors trying to add Black history articles to Wikipedia is the requirement that potential article topics, such as historical individuals or events, meet Wikipedia's “notability” criteria.[6] Sara Boboltz of HuffPost wrote that the Wikipedia notability criteria “…is a troubling problem for those fighting for more content about women and minorities”, because “…there's simply less [published] documentation on many accomplished women and minorities throughout history -- they were often ignored, after all, or forced to make their contributions as someone else's assistant”.[6] Maher stated that one issue is that "…content on Wikipedia has to be backed up by secondary sources, sources that she says throughout history have contained a bias toward white men"; "…people of color have not been represented in mainstream knowledge creation or inclusion in that knowledge," as "…encyclopedias of old were mostly written by European men."[5] Another issue is the "often abusive relationships between editors" on talk pages, which "…can make Wikipedia a less than welcoming place for …minority groups looking to get involved" in editing Wikipedia.[5] The Wikipedia editing "...community can also appear hostile, both to outsiders looking in and to those involved in it" by editing articles; indeed, article "[t]alk pages [discussions about articles] routinely devolve into seemingly petty arguments".[7] There has been "...criticism of bias [on Wikipedia], both on individual pages [articles] and as a systemic mind-set that the editing network has as a whole."[7] William Beutler, author of the blog The Wikipedian and a consultant on Wikipedia issues for clients, states that "...certain areas of Wikipedia, including certain political areas of Wikipedia...tend to be controlled by a small number of editors who tend to see things the same way."[7] Various communities have raised concerns about "...Wikipedia and its editors, saying that the pages had obvious systemic bias against them."[7] The Southern Poverty Law Center has criticized Wikipedia for being "vulnerable to manipulation by neo-Nazis, white nationalists and racist academics seeking a wider audience for extreme views."[8] According to the SPLC, "Civil POV-pushers can disrupt the editing process by engaging other users in tedious and frustrating debates or tie up administrators in endless rounds of mediation. Users who fall into this category include racialist academics and members of the human biodiversity, or HBD, blogging community... In recent years, the proliferation of far-right online spaces, such as white nationalist forums, alt-right boards and HBD blogs, has created a readymade pool of users that can be recruited to edit on Wikipedia en masse... The presence of white nationalists and other far-right extremists on Wikipedia is an ongoing problem that is unlikely to go away in the near future given the rightward political shift in countries where the majority of the site’s users live."[8] The SPLC cites the article Race and intelligence as an example of the alt-right influence on Wikipedia, stating that the article presents a "false balance" between fringe racialist views and the "mainstream perspective in psychology."[8] Responses[edit] Sherry Antoine of AfroCROWD presents at WikiConference North America, August 2017 Attempts have been made to rectify racial biases through edit-a-thons, organised events at which Wikipedia editors attempt to improve coverage of certain topics and train new editors. In February 2015, multiple edit-a-thons were organised to commemorate Black History Month in the United States.[9] One such edit-a-thon was organized by the White House to create and improve articles on African Americans in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM).[5] The Schomburg Center, Howard University, and National Public Radio, also coordinated edit-a-thons to improve coverage of black history.[2] "Wikipedia editors… have held 'edit-a-thons,'" to "....encourage others to come learn how to…contribute content on subjects that have been largely ignored.”[6] Liriano has endorsed Wikipedia edit-a-thons, stating that for Wikipedia's content to "…be representative, everyone has to participate." In 2015 and 2016, the Schomburg Center held a “Black Lives Matters” edit-a-thon to coincide with Black History Month. Volunteer editors added coverage about Black historical individuals and about key concepts in black culture (e.g., about the Harlem Book Fair and about Black costume designer Judy Dearing).[6] New articles about Black history and Black historical individuals were also created. The 2016 edit-a-thon was organized by AfroCROWD.[10] Wikipedia editors Michael Mandiberg and Dorothy Howard have organized diversity-themed edit-a-thons to “…help raise awareness of some of the glaring holes on Wikipedia, and the need for people with diverse backgrounds and knowledge to fill them”.[5] Liriano stated “It's really important that people of color know that there's this gap” of coverage of Black history on Wikipedia “…and they can correct it” by participating as editors.[6] In the US, the National Science Foundation has provided $200,000 to fund research on the issue of bias in the coverage of topics in Wikipedia.[6] The National Science Foundation has commissioned two studies of why there is bias in Wikipedia editing.[5] The Wikimedia Foundation is trying to deal with the issue of racial bias in Wikipedia. In 2015, it was reported that the Wikipedia Foundation made numerous grants “…to organizations in the "Global South"—including Africa, Latin America, Asia and the Middle East—with plans to improve [coverage of Global South topics in] Wikipedia.“[6] While Wikipedia supports these edit-a-thons, the organization has always stressed that adequate citations must always be present and neutrality must always be maintained.[11] Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales has stated that the Wikimedia Foundation has “completely failed” to meet its goals of resolving the lack of diversity amongst Wikipedia editors.[5] See also[edit] United States portal Wikipedia:WikiProject Countering systemic bias Criticism of Wikipedia Gender bias on Wikipedia External links[edit] https://www.colorlines.com/articles/can-black-wikipedia-take-black-twitter https://www.essence.com/news/wikipedia-getting-lesson-black-history/ References[edit] ^ Melamed, Samantha. "Edit-athon aims to put left-out black artists into Wikipedia". Philly.com. Archived from the original on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 13 April 2015. ^ a b Smith, Jada. "Howard University Fills in Wikipedia's Gaps in Black History". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 23 February 2015. Retrieved 13 April 2015. ^ Goko, Colleen. "Drive launched to 'Africanise' Wikipedia". BusinessDay. Archived from the original on 6 July 2015. Retrieved 13 April 2015. ^ a b Cassano, Jay. "Black History Matters, So Why Is Wikipedia Missing So Much Of It?". Fast Company. Archived from the original on 10 May 2015. Retrieved 13 April 2015. ^ a b c d e f g Lapowsky, Issie. "Meet the Editors Fighting Racism and Sexism on Wikipedia". Wired. Archived from the original on 14 November 2015. Retrieved 13 April 2015. ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Boboltz, Sara (15 April 2015). "Editors Are Trying To Fix Wikipedia's Gender And Racial Bias Problem". www.huffingtonpost.ca. Huffington Post. Archived from the original on 21 August 2017. Retrieved 20 August 2017. ^ a b c d Montellaro, Zach (18 November 2015). "How Does Political Wikipedia Stay Apolitical?: The seventh-most visited site is one of the first online listings for any elected official—but how does a site that stakes its reputation on neutrality walk that line". www.theatlantic.com. The Atlantic. Archived from the original on 21 August 2017. Retrieved 20 August 2017. ^ a b c Justin Ward (12 March 2018). "Wikipedia wars: inside the fight against far-right editors, vandals and sock puppets". Retrieved 1 March 2020. ^ "Howard University Fills in Wikipedia's Gaps in Black History". Archived from the original on 21 August 2017. Retrieved 1 October 2018. ^ Allum, Cynthia (29 February 2016). "Women leading movements to champion equality on Wikipedia". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 10 August 2017. Retrieved 20 August 2017. ^ Reynosa, Peter. "Why Don't More Latinos Contribute To Wikipedia?". El Tecolote. Archived from the original on 8 December 2015. Retrieved 3 December 2015. v t e Wikipedia Overview (Outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing Criticism gender bias ideological bias racial bias Deletionism and inclusionism MediaWiki Notability Reliability Vandalism Predictions of the project's end Community Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Citation needed Edit-a-thon "Ignore all rules" policy List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikipedian in residence WikiConference North America Wikimania WikiProject Women in Red People Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Erik Möller Ira Brad Matetsky Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales Wikipedians Wikimedian of the Year History Bomis Logo Controversies U.S. Congressional staff edits Essjay controversy Seigenthaler biography incident Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Italian Wikipedia blackout English Wikipedia blackout Hillsborough Wikipedia posts MyWikiBiz Lsjbot VisualEditor Art+Feminism #1Lib1Ref Honors 2008 Quadriga award Wikipedia Monument 2015 Erasmus Prize 2015 Princess of Asturias Award References and analysis Cultural Bibliography Films Academic studies Listen to Wikipedia Wiki-Watch Wikipediocracy WikiScanner Wikipedia Review Mobile access Apps QRpedia Wapedia WikiNodes Wikipedia Zero Wikiwand Content use Books LLC Boundless (company) DBpedia Deletionpedia Kiwix WikiReader Science information Health information Similar projects Interpedia Nupedia Citizendium Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Everipedia Veropedia List of online encyclopedias List of wikis Related Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs Print Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) 274301 Wikipedia Viola wikipedia List Category v t e Racism Types of racism Antisemitism Aversive Among White people Among LGBT people Among US minorities Colorism Sinophobia Negrophobia Among hipsters Consumer Covert Cultural Environmental Gendered Institutional Internalized Nationalist Reverse Romantic Sexual Scientific Societal Symbolic Manifestations of racism Anti-miscegenation laws Expression in the media in Charles Dickens' works in music in early US films Censored Eleven in horror films in porn online on Wikipedia in sport baseball martial arts soccer in school curricula in US politics Jokes Slurs Racial antagonism Racial determinism Racial hatred Racial hierarchy Casta Racial polarization Racial quota Racial vilification Racial violence Race war Racism by region Africa Arab world Asia Australia Europe Middle East North America South America Related topics Anti-racism Psychological impact Psychoanalysis Racial transformation Passing Racial democracy Racial fetishism Race traitor List of racism-related articles List of anti-ethnic terms Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Racial_bias_on_Wikipedia&oldid=943725321" Categories: Criticism of Wikipedia Discrimination Ethnocentrism Racism Hidden categories: Use American English from August 2017 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use dmy dates from August 2017 Articles with limited geographic scope from May 2015 Pages in non-existent country centric categories Articles that may contain original research from February 2020 All articles that may contain original research Articles containing Spanish-language text Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Edit links This page was last edited on 3 March 2020, at 15:52 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Frank@Moses.gov.ca
