Research Councils UK - Wikipedia Research Councils UK From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from RCUK) Jump to navigation Jump to search "RCUK" redirects here. For the UK council on resuscitation standards, see Resuscitation Council (UK). This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Research Councils UK" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (March 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) UK Research Councils Abbreviation RCUK Merged into United Kingdom Research and Innovation Formation 2002; 18 years ago (2002) Extinction 2018; 2 years ago (2018) Legal status Non-Departmental Public Body Purpose Funding of UK science research Headquarters Polaris House, North Star Avenue, Swindon, SN2 1ET Region served United Kingdom Membership 7 UK Research Councils Executive Group Chairman Prof. Rick Rylance Chief Executive of AHRC Main organ RCUK Executive Group Parent organization Department for Business, Innovation and Skills Affiliations BBSRC, EPSRC, ESRC, NERC, STFC, TSB, UKSA Budget £3,000m Website www.rcuk.ac.uk Research Councils UK (2002–2018), sometimes known as RCUK, was a non-departmental public body[1] which coordinated science policy in the United Kingdom. It was an umbrella organisation that coordinated the seven separate research councils[2] that are responsible for funding and coordinating academic research for the arts, humanities, science and engineering. The strategic partnership of the UK's seven research councils, Research Councils UK has now transitioned into UK Research and Innovation (UKRI). Contents 1 Function 2 Organisation 3 Councils 4 History 5 See also 6 References 7 External links Function[edit] The role of the RCUK was to: Enabling dialogue about research priorities by facilitating an open and collective approach to investing in multidisciplinary research and training Facilitating cooperation between Councils and external stakeholders by promoting dialogue, collaboration, and partnership Communicating the activities and views of the Research Councils to increase policy influence and collective visibility Collaborating with academia and other funders to reduce bureaucratic tape for researchers and university administrators Improving operational performance by sharing best practices Each of the Research Councils is an equal partner in RCUK, and each uses its best endeavours to identify and pursue opportunities for mutually beneficial joint working with one or more of the other Councils. Organisation[edit] Research councils are non-departmental public body incorporated by Royal Charter. Each is governed by its own governing council comprising a mix of academic and non-academic members, appointed by the Secretary for Innovation, Universities and Skills following a public nomination. The councils receive public funds from the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, and each reports annually to the British Parliament. In 2008 the combined annual budget was £3.5 billion, of which over £1 billion went to research grants and training at universities. This is one element of the UK's dual system of research funding, the other being block grants provided by the UK Funding Councils for higher education. Research Council grants support around 50,000 researchers through 18,000 grants at any one time. About 8,000 PhDs are awarded annually as a result of their funding. The Councils directly employ around 13,000 staff, 9,000 of whom are researchers and technicians at institutes such as the British Antarctic Survey, the Laboratory of Molecular Biology, the Roslin Institute, and the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory. However, in the UK funding system only a few permanent institutes that require permanent infrastructure are directly controlled or core-funded by the Councils. Most funding is allocated competitively and few awards last more than ten years, which allows the Councils to vary capacity to meet changing priorities and challenges. Research council funding decisions are guided by the Haldane Principle, the idea that decisions are best made by researchers independently from government. Research council funding competitions use open peer review. Councils[edit] There are seven research councils: Research council Formation Website Arts and Humanities Research Council 2005 AHRC Website Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council 1994 BBSRC website Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council 1994 EPSRC website Economic and Social Research Council 1965 ESRC website Medical Research Council 1913 MRC website Natural Environment Research Council 1965 NERC website Science and Technology Facilities Council 2007 STFC website The MRC's headquarters is in central London and the other six research councils and the RCUK operate from a single complex in Swindon. The research councils also have a joint office in Brussels since 1984—the United Kingdom Research Office (UKRO)—and in 2007 and 2008 established three additional foreign offices in Beijing, China ([1]), Washington, DC, ([2]), and New Delhi, India ([3]). In 2007 the government raised the status of the Technology Strategy Board (TSB) to become, in effect, a research council for industry. This was motivated by a concern that the seven research councils, with their emphasis on academic excellence, were giving insufficient attention to innovation through the application of research findings. The TSB has set up its headquarters next door to the Swindon offices of the research councils. History[edit] Government funding of science in the United Kingdom began in 1675 when the Royal Observatory was established in Greenwich. This trend continued in the 19th century with the creation of the British Geological Survey in 1832, and the allocation of funds in 1850 to the Royal Society to award individual grants. By the First World War in 1915, claims about the poor state of British manufacturing compared to Germany's led to the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR). It was a part of government, staffed by civil servants who distributed grants, operated laboratories, and made policy. Examples included the Radio Research Station, established in Ditton Park in 1924, which later became the Appleton Laboratory. In 1918 Richard Haldane produced a report on the machinery of government that recommended that government departments undertake more research before making policy and that they should oversee that specific, policy-minded research, while more general research should be governed by autonomous councils free from political pressure. Lord Hailsham dubbed this separation of duties as "the Haldane principle" in 1964 when he was Minister of Science; it has remained a guiding principle ever since.[3] Following the Haldane Report's recommendations, a Medical Research Council (MRC) was created in 1920 from a previous body called the Medical Research Committee that had been established in 1913 to distribute funds collected under the National Insurance Act 1911. In contrast to DSIR, the MRC was not a government department, its staff were not civil servants, and it concentrated its resources in a small number of central laboratories and a large number of research units associated with universities and hospitals.[4] In 1931 the Agricultural Research Council was established by incorporating twelve major agricultural research institutes that had been created in England and Wales in 1914. In 1949 Nature Conservancy was established as a research council in all but name. The National Research Development Corporation (NRDC) was also created to provide financial assistance for the development of inventions. In 1957 the National Institute for Research in Nuclear Science (NIRNS) was formed to operate the Rutherford High Energy Laboratory, and in 1962 the Daresbury Laboratory. By 1964 there were 14,150 science and engineering graduates in the UK, up from 7,688 in 1955, and annual civil and military research expenditure had risen from £0.6 million in 1913 to £10 million in 1939 to £76 million in 1964.[5] To respond to this growth, in 1963 Sir Burke Trend chaired the Committee of Enquiry into the Organisation of Civil Science.[6] One major recommendation was that the unwieldy Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) should be divided into a Science Research Council, a Natural Resources Research Council (NRDC), and an Industrial Research and Development Authority (IRDA) to address scientific research and industrial innovation, respectively, with the NRDC to be transferred to the Minister of Science's portfolio in order to ensure a smooth transition through the linear model of innovation. After the national election, the government chose to align scientific research with education in a Department of Education and Science, while industrial innovation was assigned to a Ministry of Technology. This was seen as a barrier between research and innovation, and when he stepped down as Science Minister, Lord Hailsham argued, "Ever since 1915 it has been considered axiomatic that responsibility for industrial research and development is better exercised in conjunction with research in the medical, agricultural and other fields".[7] After 1967 it was relaxed by Solly Zuckerman, who chaired the Cabinet-level Central Advisory Council for Science and Technology and brought the Department of Education and Science and the Ministry of Technology together, but this conflict remains a regular point of contention. Under the control of the Department of Education and Science, the Science & Technology Act of 1965 created both the Science Research Council (SRC) and the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC). The SRC incorporated most of the science part of DSIR, including the Appleton Laboratory, and both the Royal Greenwich Observatory and Royal Observatory Edinburgh, and took control of the Rutherford High Energy Laboratory and the Daresbury Laboratory from NIRNS. NERC incoporporated the Nature Conservancy and British Geological Survey. Also founded in 1965 was the Social Sciences Research Council (later the ESRC) bringing the number of Research Councils to five—Medicine, Agriculture, Natural Environment, Science, and Social Science—divided by disciplines that were not expected to collaborate. In 1981, the emphasis in policy on innovation rather than pure science increased so the SRC became the Science and Engineering Research Council (SERC). In 1983 the ARC also changed its focus to outputs rather than methods to become the Agricultural and Food Research Council (AFRC). From 1992 the Research Councils reported to the Office of Science and Technology in the Cabinet Office as the making of government departmental policy by the Office of the Chief Scientific Adviser was merged with the making of national science policy by the Science Branch of the Department of Education and Science. SERC struggled to combine three incompatible business models—administratively efficient short-term grant distribution, medium-term commitments to international agreements, and long-term commitments to staff and facilities. Given a lack of control over exchange rate fluctuations and the need to meet long-term commitments, cuts regularly fell on the short-term grants, thereby alienating the research community. In 1994 SERC finally split into the EPSRC and PPARC to further separate innovation-orientated engineering from pure research into particle physics and astronomy.[8] In 1995, the CCLRC was spun out of the EPSRC, dividing responsibility for laboratories from those for the allocation of university research grants.[9] At the same time the biological science activities of SERC were merged with the AFRC to form the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC). From 1995 the research councils reported to the Office of Science and Technology in the Department of Trade and Industry as government science policy became more linked to industrial policy. In 2002 Research Councils UK was created as a secretariat in order to bring together the research councils at a higher level to work together more effectively. In 2005 the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) was established in order to bring research funding in the arts and humanities into line with that for other disciplines. It was created from the former Arts and Humanities Research Board, which had been managed by the British Academy since 1998. From 2006 the research councils reported to the Office of Science and "Innovation" instead of "Technology", as the policy focus switched from technology objects to innovation process, although it was still within the Department of Trade and Industry. In April 2007 PPARC and CCLRC were combined to form the Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC) to create a single research council which provides access for UK scientists to national and international research facilities.[10][11] From June 2007 the research councils reported to the Department for Innovation, Universities and Skills as the making of innovation policy was merged with the making of policy for universities and skills training, and separated from industrial policy under the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform. In 2008 RCUK Shared Services Centre Ltd (SSC) was created as a separate company to share administrative duties and cut costs. From June 2009 the research councils reported to the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills as the making of higher education and innovation policy (from the Department for Innovation, Universities and Skills) was merged back with business policy making (Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform). See also[edit] Arts and Humanities Research Council Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council Economic and Social Research Council Medical Research Council Natural Environment Research Council Science and Technology Facilities Council References[edit] ^ "Research Councils UK annual review - Research Councils UK". Research Councils UK. Retrieved 10 October 2017. ^ "Governance - Research Councils UK". Research Councils UK. Retrieved 10 October 2017. ^ Policy, History &. "The 'Haldane Principle' and other invented traditions in science policy". Retrieved 22 January 2017. ^ Gummett, Philip (1 January 1980). "Scientists in Whitehall". Manchester University Press. Retrieved 22 January 2017 – via Google Books. ^ Gummett, Philip (1 January 1980). "Scientists in Whitehall". Manchester University Press. Retrieved 22 January 2017 – via Google Books. ^ "Trend Committee (Report) (Hansard, 19 November 1963)". Retrieved 22 January 2017. ^ Hansard HC Deb, 9 December 1964, vol 703 cols 1553–1686 ^ "The Research Councils, (Transfer of Property etc) Order 1994". Office of Public Sector Information. 5 Mar 1994. Retrieved 2009-06-06. ^ "The Research Councils, (Transfer of Property etc) Order 1995". Office of Public Sector Information. 3 Mar 1995. Retrieved 2009-06-06. ^ "The Science and Technology Facilities Council Order 2007" (PDF). Office of Public Sector Information. 7 Feb 2007. Retrieved 2009-06-06. ^ "The Research Councils, (Transfer of Property etc) Order 2007" (PDF). Office of Public Sector Information. 8 Mar 2007. Retrieved 2009-06-06. External links[edit] Research Councils UK website RCUK Shared Services Centre Ltd v t e Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy Ministers Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy: Alok Sharma Minister of State for Energy & Clean Growth: Kwasi Kwarteng Parliamentary Under Secretary of State for Science, Research and Innovation: Amanda Solloway Minister of State for Universities, Research, Science & Innovation Executive agencies Companies House HM Land Registry Insolvency Service Intellectual Property Office Met Office Office for Product Safety & Standards UK Space Agency Non-departmental public bodies Acas British Hallmarking Council Council for Science and Technology Innovate UK Low Pay Commission Office for Fair Access UK Atomic Energy Authority Research councils Arts and Humanities Research Council Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council Economic and Social Research Council Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council Medical Research Council Natural Environment Research Council Science and Technology Facilities Council Other British Business Bank Government Office for Science Groceries Code Adjudicator Manufacturing Advisory Service Office of Manpower Economics Ordnance Survey Category v t e Science and technology in the United Kingdom Economy of the United Kingdom Official bodies and personnel Chief Scientific Adviser to the Ministry of Defence Council for Science and Technology DESG (Defence Engineering and Science Group) Defence Science and Technology Laboratory Food and Environment Research Agency Government Office for Science Chief Scientific Adviser Innovate UK Intellectual Property Office List of UK government scientific research institutes Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology Science and Technology Select Committee Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies UK Research Councils Arts and Humanities Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Economic and Social Engineering and Physical Sciences Medical Natural Environment Science and Technology UK Space Agency Industry sectors Aerospace British space programme Automotive Computers Nuclear technology Pharmaceutical Renewable energy Telecommunications Non- governmental bodies Education and museums Science museums National Museum of Science and Industry National Space Centre Universities List Golden triangle Russell Group Societies and professional bodies British Mass Spectrometry Society British Science Association British Society for the Philosophy of Science Engineering Council Institute of Physics Institute of Physics and Engineering in Medicine Royal Academy of Engineering Royal Aeronautical Society Royal Astronomical Society Royal Entomological Society Royal Institution Christmas Lectures Royal Society The Association for Science Education Royal Society of Chemistry Science Council Royal Society of Biology Other Campaign for Science and Engineering EngineeringUK Science Media Centre Wellcome Trust People Engineers Inventors Nobel laureates Science writers Scientists Technology writers Places East London Tech City M4 corridor Science parks Silicon Fen Silicon Glen Silicon Gorge Sites of Special Scientific Interest Other Innovations and discoveries Science and technology awards Science and technology magazines JANET National Science Week Category Commons Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Research_Councils_UK&oldid=920525813" Categories: Department for Business, Innovation and Skills Funding bodies in the United Kingdom Government agencies established in 2002 Innovation in the United Kingdom Organisations based in Swindon Public bodies and task forces of the United Kingdom government Research and development in the United Kingdom Research organisations in the United Kingdom Science and technology in the United Kingdom 2002 establishments in the United Kingdom Science policy Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from March 2015 All articles needing additional references Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Add links This page was last edited on 10 October 2019, at 10:01 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Moses@James.gov
