Real life - Wikipedia Real life From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article is about the common term "real life". For things named "Real Life", see Real Life. Phrase separating "reality" from "fantasy" or "online" "Real life" is a phrase used originally in literature to distinguish between the real world and fictional or idealized worlds, and in acting to distinguish between performers and the characters they portray. More recently, it has become a popular term on the Internet to describe events, people, activities, and interactions occurring offline; or otherwise not primarily through the medium of the Internet. It is also used as a metaphor to distinguish life in a vocational setting as opposed to an academic one. Contents 1 As distinct from fiction 2 As distinct from the Internet 2.1 Related terminology 3 See also 4 References 5 External links As distinct from fiction[edit] Illustration by William Blake for Wollstonecraft's Original Stories (1791) When used to distinguish from fictional worlds or universes against the consensus reality of the reader, the term has a long history: Authors, as a rule, attempt to select and portray types rarely met with in their entirety, but these types are nevertheless more real than real life itself. —?Fyodor Dostoyevsky, The Idiot (1868-69)[1] In her 1788 work, Original Stories from Real Life; with Conversations Calculated to Regulate the Affections, and Form the Mind to Truth and Goodness, author Mary Wollstonecraft employs the term in her title, representing the work's focus on a middle-class ethos which she viewed as superior to the court culture represented by fairy tales and the values of chance and luck found in chapbook stories for the poor.[2] As phrased by Gary Kelly, writing about the work, "The phrase 'real life' strengthens 'original', excluding both the artificial and the fictional or imaginary."[3] Similarly, the phrase can be used to distinguish an actor from a character, e.g. "In real life, he has a British accent" or "In real life, he lives in Los Angeles." There is a related but slightly distinct usage among role-players and historical reenactors, to distinguish the fantasy or historical context from the actual world and the role-player or actor from the character, e.g. "What do you do in real life?" or "Where do you live in real life?" As distinct from the Internet[edit] On the Internet, "real life" refers to life offline. Online, the initialism "IRL" stands for "in real life", with the meaning "not on the Internet".[4] For example, while Internet users may speak of having "met" someone that they have contacted via online chat or in an online gaming context, to say that they met someone "in real life" is to say that they literally encountered them at a physical location. Some, arguing that the Internet is part of real life, prefer to use "away from the keyboard" (AFK), e.g. the documentary TPB AFK. Some sociologists engaged in the study of the Internet have predicted that someday, a distinction between online and offline worlds may seem "quaint", noting that certain types of online activity, such as sexual intrigues, have already made a full transition to complete legitimacy and "reality".[5] Related terminology[edit] The initialism "RL" stands for "real life" and "IRL" for "in real life." For example, one can speak of "meeting IRL" someone whom one has met online, such as in "LMIRL" ("let's meet in real life"). It may also be used to express an inability to use the Internet for a time due to "RL problems". Some internet users use the idioms "face time", "meatspace", or "meat world", which contrast with the term "cyberspace".[6][7] "Meatspace" has appeared in the Financial Times[8] and in science fiction literature.[9] Some early uses of the term include a post to the Usenet newsgroup austin.public-net in 1993[10] and an article in The Seattle Times about John Perry Barlow in 1995.[11] The term entered the Oxford English Dictionary in 2000.[12] See also[edit] Brick and mortar business Face time Face-to-face Lifelike experience Online and offline Reality Virtual reality In Real Life, a TV reality show for kids Original Stories from Real Life, children's literature References[edit] ^ "Fyodor Dostoyevsky: The Idiot: Part IV: Chapter I". The Free Online Library. Retrieved 6 May 2006. ^ Wollstonecraft, Mary. Original Stories from Real Life. London: Printed for Joseph Johnson, 1788. Available from Eighteenth Century Collections Online. (by subscription only) Retrieved on 13 October 2007. ^ Kelly, Gary. Revolutionary Feminism: The Mind and Career of Mary Wollstonecraft. London: Macmillan, 1992. ISBN 0-312-12904-1. ^ "AcronymFinder.com search for IRL". ^ Don Slater (2002). "Social Relationships and Identity On-line and Off-line". In Leah Lievrouw and Sonia Livingstone (ed.). Handbook of New Media: Social Shaping and Consequences of ICTs. Sage Publications Inc. pp. 533–543. ISBN 0-7619-6510-6. ^ "meatspace (MEET.spays) n." Word Spy. Paul McFedries and Logophilia Limited. 14 November 1996. Retrieved 11 August 2008. ^ Dodero, Camille (17 July 2006). "Does your life suck?". The Phoenix. Retrieved 23 July 2007. Beyond this world, in real life – a/k/a what Second Lifers refer to as "meatspace," where your body is made of flesh, not bytes… ^ Rhymer Rigby (23 August 2006). "Warning: interruption overload". Ft.com. Archived from the original on 13 August 2011. Retrieved 22 October 2011. ^ For example: Stephenson, Neal (2000). Cryptonomicon. HarperCollins. p. 529. ISBN 0-380-78862-4. Current meatspace coordinates, hot from the GPS receiver card in my laptop: ... Stirling, S. M. (2003). T2: Rising Storm. T2 Series. HarperCollins. p. 53. ISBN 0-380-80817-X. On the Internet the gloves come off and people say things they'd never say in meat space. ^ Barnes, Douglas (21 February 1993). "Austin CyberSpace Journal #1". Retrieved 13 March 2008. Meatspace update (quick rundown on where/how to interact with net.folks in meatspace, i.e., regular events, social gatherings, restaurant hangouts, etc.) ^ Andrews, Paul (30 October 1995). "He's Trying To Build A Community On-Line -- Grateful Dead Lyricist Ventures into Cyberspace". The Seattle Times. Retrieved 13 March 2008. John Perry Barlow is multitasking between cyberspace, meatspace and parentspace about as well as a mere mortal can do. ^ "'Lookist' Britain: the way we look inspires the new English". Retrieved 13 March 2008. External links[edit] Look up real life in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Look up meatspace in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Meatspace from the Jargon File. Meatspace from Oxford Dictionaries Online "Origin of the term meatspace?". Retrieved 2 April 2008. "Word Spy - meatspace". Retrieved 2 April 2008. v t e Mixed and virtual reality Concepts Applications of virtual reality Artificial reality Augmented reality Augmented virtuality Degrees of freedom Immersion Projection augmented model Real life Reality–virtuality continuum Room-scale Telepresence Virtual reality sickness Virtual world persistent Technology Eye tracking Finger tracking Haptic suit Omnidirectional treadmill Positional tracking Wearable computer Display Head-mounted display optical Head-up display Virtual retinal display Virtual reality headset (comparison) Software Asynchronous reprojection Foveated rendering Image-based modeling and rendering Photography Free viewpoint television 360-degree video VR photography Omnidirectional camera Peripherals Cyberith Virtualizer Oculus Touch Leap Motion PlayStation Move Razer Hydra Virtuix Omni Wired glove Wizdish ROVR Immersive devices Current Google Cardboard HTC Vive Nintendo Labo VR Kit Oculus Go Oculus Quest Oculus Rift CV1 Rift S OSVR Magic Leap Samsung Gear VR PlayStation VR Pimax Valve Index Windows Mixed Reality Microsoft HoloLens 2 Google Glass Legacy Famicom 3D System Google Daydream Liquid Image Sensorama Sega VR Sword of Damocles Virtual Boy Virtuality Applications ARToolKit ARCore Interactive art Virtual graffiti OpenVR OpenXR Pervasive game WebVR Games List of HTC Vive games List of Oculus Quest games List of Oculus Rift games List of PlayStation VR games Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Real_life&oldid=941210335" Categories: Internet terminology Belief Reality Community building Social constructionism Hidden categories: Use dmy dates from February 2020 Articles with short description Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Dansk Deutsch ????? Français ??? Italiano ????? Nederlands Polski Român? ???? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 17 February 2020, at 06:20 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
