Resource Description Framework - Wikipedia Resource Description Framework From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Formal language for describing data models This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article may have too many section headers dividing up its content. Please help improve the article by merging similar sections and removing unneeded subheaders. (July 2018) ‹ The template below (Lead too short) is being considered for restructuring. See templates for discussion to help reach a consensus. › This article's lead section does not adequately summarize key points of its contents. Please consider expanding the lead to provide an accessible overview of all important aspects of the article. Please discuss this issue on the article's talk page. (July 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) RDF 1.1 Concepts and Abstract Syntax Status Published, W3C Recommendation Year started 1996 Editors Richard Cyganiak, David Wood, Markus Lanthaler Base standards URI Related standards RDFS, OWL, RIF, RDFa Domain Semantic Web Abbreviation RDF Website www.w3.org/TR/2014/REC-rdf11-concepts-20140225/ The Resource Description Framework (RDF) is a family of World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) specifications[1] originally designed as a metadata data model. It has come to be used as a general method for conceptual description or modeling of information that is implemented in web resources, using a variety of syntax notations and data serialization formats. It is also used in knowledge management applications. RDF was adopted as a W3C recommendation in 1999. The RDF 1.0 specification was published in 2004, the RDF 1.1 specification in 2014. Contents 1 Overview 2 History 3 RDF topics 3.1 Vocabulary 3.1.1 Classes 3.1.1.1 rdf 3.1.1.2 rdfs 3.1.2 Properties 3.1.2.1 rdf 3.1.2.2 rdfs 3.2 Serialization formats 3.3 Resource identification 3.4 Statement reification and context 3.5 Query and inference languages 3.6 Validation and description 4 Examples 4.1 Example 1: Description of a person named Eric Miller[46] 4.2 Example 2: The postal abbreviation for New York 4.3 Example 3: A Wikipedia article about Tony Benn 5 Applications 6 See also 7 References 7.1 Citations 7.2 Sources 8 Further reading 9 External links Overview[edit] The RDF data model[2] is similar to classical conceptual modeling approaches (such as entity–relationship or class diagrams). It is based on the idea of making statements about resources (in particular web resources) in expressions of the form subject–predicate–object, known as triples. The subject denotes the resource, and the predicate denotes traits or aspects of the resource, and expresses a relationship between the subject and the object. For example, one way to represent the notion "The sky has the color blue" in RDF is as the triple: a subject denoting "the sky", a predicate denoting "has the color", and an object denoting "blue". Therefore, RDF uses subject instead of object (or entity) in contrast to the typical approach of an entity–attribute–value model in object-oriented design: entity (sky), attribute (color), and value (blue). RDF is an abstract model with several serialization formats (i.e. file formats), so the particular encoding for resources or triples varies from format to format. This mechanism for describing resources is a major component in the W3C's Semantic Web activity: an evolutionary stage of the World Wide Web in which automated software can store, exchange, and use machine-readable information distributed throughout the Web, in turn enabling users to deal with the information with greater efficiency and certainty. RDF's simple data model and ability to model disparate, abstract concepts has also led to its increasing use in knowledge management applications unrelated to Semantic Web activity. A collection of RDF statements intrinsically represents a labeled, directed multi-graph. This in theory makes an RDF data model better suited to certain kinds of knowledge representation than are other relational or ontological models. However, in practice, RDF data is often stored in relational database or native representations (also called Triplestores—or Quad stores, if context such as the named graph is also stored for each RDF triple).[3] As RDFS and OWL demonstrate, one can build additional ontology languages upon RDF. History[edit] The initial RDF design, intended to "build a vendor-neutral and operating system-independent system of metadata,"[4] derived from the W3C's Platform for Internet Content Selection (PICS), an early web content labelling system,[5] but the project was also shaped by ideas from Dublin Core, and from the Meta Content Framework (MCF),[4] which had been developed during 1995–1997 by Ramanathan V. Guha at Apple and Tim Bray at Netscape.[6] A first public draft of RDF appeared in October 1997,[7][8] issued by a W3C working group that included representatives from IBM, Microsoft, Netscape, Nokia, Reuters, SoftQuad, and the University of Michigan.[5] In 1999, the W3C published the first recommended RDF specification, the Model and Syntax Specification ("RDF M&S").[9] This described RDF's data model and an XML serialization.[10] Two persistent misunderstandings about RDF developed at this time: firstly, due to the MCF influence and the RDF "Resource Description" initialism, the idea that RDF was specifically for use in representing metadata; secondly that RDF was an XML format rather than a data model, and only the RDF/XML serialisation being XML-based. RDF saw little take-up in this period, but there was significant work done in Bristol, around ILRT at Bristol University and HP Labs, and in Boston at MIT. RSS 1.0 and FOAF became exemplar applications for RDF in this period. The recommendation of 1999 was replaced in 2004 by a set of six specifications:[11] "The RDF Primer",[12] "RDF Concepts and Abstract",[13] "RDF/XML Syntax Specification (revised)",[14] "RDF Semantics",[15] "RDF Vocabulary Description Language 1.0",[16] and "The RDF Test Cases".[17] This series was superseded in 2014 by the following six "RDF 1.1" documents: "RDF 1.1 Primer,"[18] "RDF 1.1 Concepts and Abstract Syntax,"[19] "RDF 1.1 XML Syntax,"[20] "RDF 1.1 Semantics,"[21] "RDF Schema 1.1,"[22] and "RDF 1.1 Test Cases".[23] RDF topics[edit] Vocabulary[edit] The vocabulary defined by the RDF specification is as follows:[24] Classes[edit] rdf[edit] rdf:XMLLiteral – the class of XML literal values rdf:Property – the class of properties rdf:Statement – the class of RDF statements rdf:Alt, rdf:Bag, rdf:Seq – containers of alternatives, unordered containers, and ordered containers (rdfs:Container is a super-class of the three) rdf:List – the class of RDF Lists rdf:nil – an instance of rdf:List representing the empty list rdfs[edit] rdfs:Resource – the class resource, everything rdfs:Literal – the class of literal values, e.g. strings and integers rdfs:Class – the class of classes rdfs:Datatype – the class of RDF datatypes rdfs:Container – the class of RDF containers rdfs:ContainerMembershipProperty – the class of container membership properties, rdf:_1, rdf:_2, ..., all of which are sub-properties of rdfs:member Properties[edit] rdf[edit] rdf:type – an instance of rdf:Property used to state that a resource is an instance of a class rdf:first – the first item in the subject RDF list rdf:rest – the rest of the subject RDF list after rdf:first rdf:value – idiomatic property used for structured values rdf:subject – the subject of the RDF statement rdf:predicate – the predicate of the RDF statement rdf:object – the object of the RDF statement rdf:Statement, rdf:subject, rdf:predicate, rdf:object are used for reification (see below). rdfs[edit] rdfs:subClassOf – the subject is a subclass of a class rdfs:subPropertyOf – the subject is a subproperty of a property rdfs:domain – a domain of the subject property rdfs:range – a range of the subject property rdfs:label – a human-readable name for the subject rdfs:comment – a description of the subject resource rdfs:member – a member of the subject resource rdfs:seeAlso – further information about the subject resource rdfs:isDefinedBy – the definition of the subject resource This vocabulary is used as a foundation for RDF Schema, where it is extended. Serialization formats[edit] RDF 1.1 Turtle serialization Filename extension .ttl Internet media type text/turtle[25] Developed by World Wide Web Consortium Standard RDF 1.1 Turtle: Terse RDF Triple Language January 9, 2014; 6 years ago (2014-01-09) Open format? Yes RDF/XML serialization Filename extension .rdf Internet med
