King Juan Carlos University - Wikipedia King Juan Carlos University From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Rey Juan Carlos University) Jump to navigation Jump to search "Universidad Rey Juan Carlos" redirects here. For the Madrid Metro station, see Universidad Rey Juan Carlos (Madrid Metro). King Juan Carlos University Universidad Rey Juan Carlos Motto Non nova, sed nove ("Not new, but in a new way") Type Public Established 8 July 1996, Rector Javier Ramos Administrative staff 1,904 Students 45,458 (2017)[1] Location Madrid, Community of Madrid, Spain Campus Móstoles, Alcorcón, Fuenlabrada, Vicálvaro and Aranjuez Colors          Nickname URJC Affiliations CRUE Website www.urjc.es King Juan Carlos University (Spanish: Universidad Rey Juan Carlos, URJC) is a Spanish public research university located in the southern area of the Community of Madrid (Spain), with five campuses at Móstoles, Alcorcón, Vicálvaro, Aranjuez and Fuenlabrada. It is named after former king Juan Carlos I of Spain and has the Latin motto Non nova, sed nove ("Not new things, but in a new way"). It was established in 1996 by the government of the Community of Madrid. With 44.916 students, it is the second-biggest public university in the Community of Madrid, behind the historical Universidad Complutense.[2] URJC is one of eight universities in the Community of Madrid, and it is the second-newest university in the community. Contents 1 Studies 2 Campus 3 Academic programs 4 Gallery 5 Honorary doctorates 6 References Studies[edit] King Juan Carlos University offers a range of degrees, all adapted to the European Higher Education Area. This includes 64 undergraduate degrees, 44 dual degrees, 6 English-medium degrees, 6 university degrees on-line, 18 diplomas, and 8 engineering degrees, as well as a wide range of official master's (81) and doctoral programs involving both degrees and training (34) in health sciences, experimental sciences and technology, communication sciences, and law and social sciences. King Juan Carlos University has four campuses in Madrid, Fuenlabrada, Móstoles and Vicálvaro, as well as a foundation whose headquarters are on Madrid’s Plaza de Manuel Becerra. URJC rectorate in Móstoles Campus[edit] The URJC is divided into four campuses. Each campus is composed of one or more schools: Móstoles Campus is, since 1998, the headquarters of the School of Experimental Sciences and Technology (ESCET) and since 2007 the School of Computer Engineering (ETSII). It also houses the University Senate and the office of the President (Rector). Alcorcón Campus ouses the Faculty of Health Sciences since 1997 and the University Hospital URJC. Vicálvaro Campus (Madrid) is the seat of the Faculty of Juridical and Social Sciences (FCJS) since 1998. Fuenlabrada Campus houses since 2000, the Faculty of Communication Sciences and School of Tourism, which since November 2009 was renamed the Faculty of Tourism, and since 2005 the School of Telecommunications Engineering (ETSIT). Each school or college is governed by a Dean or School Director, and is divided into academic departments. Affiliated centres: Institute of Commercial Management and Marketing in Somosaguas (Madrid). ESERP School (Madrid). Colleges: Higher Institute of Dance Alicia Alonso (Fuenlabrada). Institute of Humanities (Vicálvaro). Institute of International Legal Studies (Vicálvaro). University Centres: University Language Centre (Vicálvaro), which regularly gives courses in English, French, German, Italian, Chinese and Spanish for foreigners. Emile Noël Research and Documentation Centre of the European Union (Vicálvaro). Volunteering and Cooperation Centre (Alcorcón). University Centre for Applied Social Studies (Vicálvaro). Economics Study Centre in Madrid (Vicálvaro). Centre for Latin American Studies (Móstoles). Centre for the Study of the Olympic Movement (Vicálvaro). Centre for Intelligent Information Technologies and Applications (CETINIA). Business Incubator (Vicálvaro). Legal Office (Vicálvaro). Technology Support Centre (Móstoles). Centre for Innovation, Technology Transfer and Knowledge (Móstoles). Laboratory Network URJC (REDLABU). Centre of Research and Teaching, located in the so-called Nuncio's Palace in Aranjuez. King Juan Carlos University organizes its summer courses in Aranjuez. Academic programs[edit] Studies include computer science, telecommunications engineering, chemical engineering, environmental science, odontology, medicine, nursing, physiotherapy, audiovisual communication, telecommunications, tourism, journalism, law, economics, business administration and management, sociology, history, accounting and finance, marketing, food science and technology, biology, psychology, preschool education, international relations, visual arts and dance, and criminology, among others. Gallery[edit] URJC Rectorate Building URJC Building located in Manuel Becerra Square in Madrid 1st Department Building, Móstoles Campus 2nd Department Building, Móstoles Campus 2nd Classroom Building (right) and 2nd Laboratory Building (left), Móstoles Campus Honorary doctorates[edit] In 2007 Juan Velarde Fuertes, Iñaki Gabilondo, Luis del Olmo and Antonio Mingote were awarded honorary doctorates from King Juan Carlos University. In January 2008, Bernardo Kliksberg became the first foreigner to receive an honorary doctorate degree from the university along with Jaime Gil Aluja, José Antonio Pastor Ridruejo and Fernando Sánchez Calero. In 2011, honorary doctorates were awarded to Harald zur Hausen, Ramón Tamames and Peter Waldmann.[3] In 2014 James A. Yorke, distinguished University Professor of Mathematics and Physics at the University of Maryland and recipient of the 2003 Japan Prize in Science and Technology, was awarded an honorary doctorate from King Juan Carlos University.[4] Prof. Yorke is known worldwide for the definition of the mathematical term "chaos" in 1975. Rodrigo Rato, former Managing Director of the IMF and Spanish Deputy Prime Minister, previously held an honorary doctorate from King Juan Carlos University, which was not immediately canceled when he was later sentenced to 4½ years' imprisonment for bank fraud in his role as chairman of bank Bankia.[5] References[edit] ^ "Anuario Estadistico de la Comunidad de Madrid. Educacion, formacion e investigacion". Instituto de Estadística. Retrieved 23 July 2015. ^ "URJC – Universidad Rey Juan Carlos". Yoyster.com. 16 October 2012. Archived from the original on 10 February 2013. Retrieved 23 July 2015. ^ "Prof. Dr. Peter Waldmann (emeritus)". Universität Augsburg (in German). 6 February 2012. Retrieved 23 July 2015. ^ Vega, Irene (31 January 2015). "Unidad de Información Científica URJC James Yorke investido doctor 'honoris causa' por la URJC". Universidad Rey Juan Carlos. Archived from the original on 15 June 2018. Retrieved 23 July 2015. ^ Cantó, Pablo; Bueno Ballesteros, Anabel (11 April 2018). "Cosas que no se te olvidan si estudiaste en la URJC". El País (in Spanish). Retrieved 11 April 2018. v t e Transatlantic Policy Consortium North America Monterey Institute of International Studies USC Sol Price School of Public Policy University of Georgia School of Public and International Affairs Indiana University Maurer School of Law Indiana University School of Public and Environmental Affairs University of Maryland School of Public Policy Suffolk University Law School Rutgers University School of Public Affairs and Administration Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs Rockefeller College of Public Affairs & Policy University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of Public and International Affairs Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs George Mason University School of Public Policy American University School of Public Affairs Europe Katholieke Universiteit Leuven Danish School of Public Administration École Nationale d'Administration Paris-Sorbonne University University of Reims Champagne-Ardenne German Research Institute for Public Administration German University of Administrative Sciences Speyer Hertie School of Governance Karlsruhe Institute for Technology Assessment and Systems Analysis Max Planck Institute of Economics Potsdam University University of Bremen Willy Brandt School of Public Policy Zeppelin University Delft University of Technology Erasmus University Rotterdam Leiden University Tilburg University Utrecht University Polish Institute of International Affairs Instituto Superior Técnico King Juan Carlos University Pompeu Fabra University Jönköping University University of Birmingham University of Glasgow v t e Universities in Spain Public Balearic Islands Basque Country Cantabria Castilla–La Mancha Extremadura La Rioja Navarra Public Oviedo Zaragoza Andalusia Almería Cádiz Córdoba Granada Huelva International University of Andalucía Jaén Malaga Pablo de Olavide Seville Castile and León Burgos León Salamanca Valladolid Canary Islands La Laguna Las Palmas de Gran Canaria Catalonia Autonomous University of Barcelona Barcelona Girona Lleida Open University of Catalonia Polytechnic University of Catalonia Pompeu Fabra Rovira i Virgili Galicia A Coruña Santiago de Compostela Vigo Madrid Alcalá Autonomous University of Madrid Carlos III Complutense University of Madrid Menéndez Pelayo International University UNED King Juan Carlos Technical University of Madrid Murcia Murcia Technical University of Cartagena Valencian Community Alicante Jaume I Miguel Hernández Polytechnic University of Valencia Valencia Private Camilo José Cela European University of the Atlantic European University of Madrid Francisco de Vitoria IE University Miguel de Cervantes European University Mondragon Ramon Llull Valencian International University Vic Canary Islands Catholic Abat Oliba CEU Catholic University of Ávila CEU Cardenal Herrera CEU San Pablo Comillas Deusto Loyola Andalucía Navarra Pontifical University of Salamanca San Antonio San Vicente Mártir Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=King_Juan_Carlos_University&oldid=941312773" Categories: Universities in the Community of Madrid Educational institutions established in 1996 Móstoles Hidden categories: CS1 German-language sources (de) CS1 Spanish-language sources (es) Pages using infobox university with the affiliations parameter Articles containing Spanish-language text Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Asturianu Català ?eština Deutsch Español Esperanto Euskara Français Galego Italiano ??? Polski Português Svenska Tagalog Edit links This page was last edited on 17 February 2020, at 21:08 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
