San Antonio Express-News - Wikipedia San Antonio Express-News From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search San Antonio Express-News The January 18, 2012 front page of the San Antonio Express-News Type Daily newspaper Format Broadsheet Owner(s) Hearst Corporation Publisher Susan Pape Editor Marc Duvoisin[1] Founded 1865 Headquarters Avenue E and Third Street San Antonio, Texas 78205 United States Circulation 137,059 Daily 339,465 Sunday[2] Website http://www.expressnews.com/ The San Antonio Express-News is a daily newspaper in San Antonio, Texas. It is owned by the Hearst Corporation and has offices in San Antonio and Austin. The Express-News is the fourth largest newspaper in the state of Texas, with a daily circulation of nearly 100,000 copies in 2016.[3]. The Express-News operates online both as Express-News and as MySA. Contents 1 History 2 Current business 3 See also 4 References 5 Sources 6 External links History[edit] The paper was first published in 1865 as a weekly tabloid-style newspaper under the name The San Antonio Express. At that time, the city had already had a number of other newspapers in a number of different languages. However, all the other publications went out of business, leaving only the Express to serve the city. In December 1866, the Express made the move from a weekly paper to a daily newspaper, and expanded into a full newspaper by the early 1870s. The early days of the Express was marked by several leadership changes which almost doomed the paper, until a brand new company, the Express Printing Company, took control in 1875. The Express eventually became a daily morning newspaper in 1878. In January 1881 a new rival newspaper, the Evening Light, was first published by A. W. Gifford and J. P. Newcomb, who had been an early investor in the Express.[4] The Evening Light was published as an afternoon paper, as opposed to the morning Express. At first, the editors of the Express chose to ignore the upstart paper, but the Light soon grew in popularity at the turn of the 20th century. In 1906 the Daily Light was sold to E. B. Chandler, and in 1909 the Daily Light Publishing Company bought the San Antonio Gazette. From then until 1911 the paper was referred to as the Light and Gazette. Edward S. O'Reilly, known as Tex, was at one time managing editor. In 1911 Harrison L. Beach and Charles S. Diehl, veteran correspondents of national standing, moved to San Antonio and bought the Light and Gazette. Once again it was known as the Light. Diehl was a founder of the AP wire service. Beach and Diehl installed leased wire news service and published the first full stock market reports in a San Antonio paper. The Light became liberal-Democratic in its political views. While Beach and Diehl ran the paper, circulation increased from 11,000 to 25,000 copies daily. In 1918, the Express ownership, now renamed Express Publishing Company, launched its own afternoon paper, the San Antonio Evening News. Soon thereafter, a rivalry developed between workers of the Express and the News. In fact, some News workers dubbed a new office building as the News-Express building. In 1924, however, William Randolph Hearst bought the Light and instituted Hearst policies, and by 1945 the circulation was approximately 70,000. The 1920s was marked by expansion by Express Publishing as the company started one of the city's first radio stations, WOAI, in 1922. As the two rival companies entered the 1950s, the Express and the News both had higher readership numbers than the Light. However, the Light skyrocketed to the top of the market when it acquired a number of popular comic strips, like Dick Tracy. Over at Express Publishing, the company diversified further as they acquired a couple more radio stations, and a television station which they renamed KENS-TV. Those call letters were intended to stand for, K-Express News Station. In the 1960s, Express Publishing was sold to the Harte-Hanks newspaper group. In 1973, with the Light beating the Express and the News in circulation numbers, a new ownership group emerged. Australian native Rupert Murdoch of News Corp bought the Express and the News from Harte-Hanks. Murdoch re-formatted the News as a more tabloid-styled paper, while the Express retained its original, conservative format. The Light was now forced to compete against two different styles of newspaper while at the same time trying to combat the growing costs of an afternoon circulation. By September 1984, the Express and the News merged into the Express-News and afternoon service was slowly discontinued, while the Light started getting into the morning circulation business in order to keep up. But under News Corp., the Express-News adopted a more mainstream format and expanded its services to communities outside Bexar County. As a result, the Express-News became San Antonio's leading newspaper for good. By 1992, News Corp had diversified into movies and television and was looking to sell the Express-News. The Hearst Corporation, which still owned the Light, agreed to either sell or close the newspaper and acquire the Express-News in order to keep its stake in the San Antonio market. The Light never found a buyer and it went out of business in January 1993. On February 13, 2016, the paper broke the news of the death of US Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia.[5] Current business[edit] Today, this Hearst Corp. newspaper is led by Publisher Susan Lynch Pape, who is also Hearst's Texas Group chief financial officer at the Houston Chronicle and the San Antonio Express-News. Marc Duvoisin is Vice President and Editor of the San Antonio Express-News. The Express-News is a nationally recognized news organization that has earned a number of top awards over the last several years, including first-place finishes in the Scripps, National Headliners, ASNE, TxAPME, Sigma Delta Chi, Best of the West, Editor & Publisher and other contests for its coverage of South Texas, the military, border affairs and general features.[citation needed] Its photo staff was a Pulitzer finalist in the feature photography category for its immigration coverage in South and Central America. Its subscriber website, ExpressNews.com, has earned top honors for its overall digital storytelling. See also[edit] Dan Cook List of newspapers in Texas Texas portal Companies portal References[edit] ^ DUVOISIN, A FORMER LOS ANGELES TIMES TOP EDITOR, NAMED EXPRESS-NEWS EDITOR ^ "Top Media Outlets: US Daily Newspapers" (PDF). Alliance for Audited Media. Retrieved 2015-01-06. ^ "Top 10 Texas Daily Newspapers". Cision. August 3, 2016. Retrieved January 9, 2018. ^ Handbook of Texas Online, James Pearson Newcomb ^ http://www.poynter.org/2016/how-the-san-antonio-express-news-broke-news-of-scalias-death/396569/ Sources[edit] Handbook of Texas Online, San Antonio Light External links[edit] ExpressNews.com and mysanantonio.com Online homes of the Express-News The history of the Express-News San Antonio Express-News Hearst subsidiary profile of the San Antonio Express-News v t e Hearst Communications Daily newspapers The Advocate Times Union Beaumont Enterprise Connecticut Post The Courier (Conroe, Texas) Edwardsville Intelligencer Greenwich Time The Hour Houston Chronicle Huron Daily Tribune Journal-Courier Laredo Morning Times Manistee News Advocate The Middletown Press Midland Daily News Midland Reporter-Telegram New Haven Register The News-Times The Pioneer Plainview Daily Herald The Register Citizen San Antonio Express-News San Francisco Chronicle seattlepi.com The Telegraph Connecticut Magazine Weekly newspapers Cleveland Advocate Eastex Advocate Examiner Newspapers (Bellaire, Memorial, River Oaks, West University) The Lake Houston Observer The Potpourri (Magnolia and Tomball) Sugar Land Sun The Villager (The Woodlands, Texas) La Voz de Houston Magazines United States Bicycling Car and Driver Cosmopolitan Country Living Elle Elle Decor Esquire Food Network Magazine Good Housekeeping Harper's Bazaar harper by Harper's Bazaar House Beautiful Marie Claire (US) Men's Health Metropolitan Home O, The Oprah Magazine Organic Gardening Popular Mechanics Prevention Redbook Road & Track Runner's World Seventeen Town & Country Woman's Day Women's Health CDS Global Hearst Magazines Digital Media ELLEgirl.com espin Lenny Letter Shondaland.com International All About Soap Best Digital Spy Elle Esquire Inside Soap Psychologies Prima (UK) Quo Sugar Hearst TV Television stations by affiliation ABC KETV KHBS / KHOG KMBC KOAT KOCO KSBW-DT2 WAPT WCVB WISN WJCL WMUR WMTW WPBF WTAE The CW KCWE KHBS-DT2 / KHOG-DT2 WCWG WKCF WNNE WPXT Other CBS KCCI WLKY Independent WMOR MyNetworkTV KQCA KCCI-DT3 WPXT-DT2 NBC KCRA KSBW WBAL WDSU WESH WGAL WLWT WPTZ WVTM WXII WYFF Radio stations Cosmopolitan FM WBAL WIYY Entertainment and syndication A&E Networks (50%) Cosmopolitan Television (part owner) DailyINK ESPN Inc. (20%) King Features Syndicate Light TV (part owner) Litton Entertainment (major) NorthSouth Productions (50%) Reed Brennan Media Associates Texture (part owner) Verizon Hearst Media Partners (50%) Complex Networks Business media Black Book First Databank Fitch Ratings BMI Research Motor Real estate Hearst Tower Hearst Service Center Hearst Ranch v t e City of San Antonio Nickname: Alamo City Topics Architecture Culture History Neighborhoods Metropolitan Area San Antonio River (Springs) Attractions The Alamo Alamo Cenotaph Acequia Madre de Valero La Antorcha de la Amistad Basilica of the National Shrine of the Little Flower Cathedral of San Fernando Convention Center Don Pedro Mexican Restaurant Earl Abel's Guenther House HemisFair '68 Houston Street La Villita Market Square Rivercenter River Walk St. Joseph Catholic Church Tower of the Americas Tower Life Building Zoo Museums Artpace Blue Star Contemporary Art Museum Briscoe Western Art Museum Buckhorn Saloon & Museum Casa Navarro State Historic Site Fort Sam Houston Museum Gallista Gas Gallery Guadalupe Cultural Arts Center Guinness World Records UTSA Institute of Texan Cultures McNay Art Museum Museo Alameda Museum of Aerospace Medicine O. Henry House Museum San Antonio Academy Museum San Antonio Museum of Art Southwest School of Art Spanish Governor's Palace Edward Steves Homestead Texas Air Museum Texas Transportation Museum United States Army Medical Department Museum Witte Museum Yturri-Edmunds Historic Site See also: List of museums in Central Texas Entertainment Arneson River Theater Aztec on the River Fiesta Noche del Rio Fiesta San Antonio Freeman Coliseum Majestic Theatre Morgan's Wonderland Ripley's Believe It or Not! Santikos Theatres SeaWorld Six Flags Splashtown St. Mary's Strip Texas Folklife Festival Tobin Center for the Performing Arts (Symphony) San Antonio Municipal Auditorium Woodlawn Theatre Industry Bill Miller Bar-B-Q Enterprises Christus Santa Rosa iHeartMedia Firstmark Credit Union Frost Bank H-E-B Jim's Restaurants Luby's M7 Aerospace NewTek Rackspace San Antonio Express-News SAS Shoemakers (SAS) SAWS Security Service Federal Credit Union SWBC Taco Cabana Tesoro Toyota Motor Manufacturing Texas USAA Valero Visionworks of America Whataburger Research and education The Alamo Colleges Baptist School of Health Professions Cancer Therapy & Research Center Children's Cancer Research Institute Oblate School of Theology Our Lady of the Lake University San Antonio Public Library South Texas Medical Center Texas Biomedical Research Institute Southwest Research Institute St. Mary's University Texas A&M University–San Antonio Texas Neurosciences Institute Trinity University University Hospital System University of the Incarnate Word University of Texas Health Science Center UTSA Military San Antonio Military Medical Center Brooks City-Base Camp Bullis Fort Sam Houston Lackland Air Force Base Pershing House Randolph Air Force Base Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center Neighborhoods Alamo Heights Alazán-Apache Courts Brooks Dominion Downtown Inwood La Cantera Mahncke Park Monte Vista Pearl Pecan Valley Stone Oak Thompson Field Parks Acequia Botanical Garden Brackenridge Denman Estate Dwight D. Eisenhower Friedrich Government Canyon Hardberger Mahncke Japanese Tea Garden San Antonio Missions San Pedro Springs O. P. Schnabel Travis Sports Alamodome AT&T Center (Spurs and Rampage) Freeman Coliseum Nelson W. Wolff Stadium San Antonio Missions (Baseball) Toyota Field (San Antonio FC) San Antonio Stock Show & Rodeo Transportation Airport Amtrak Station VIA Metropolitan Transit Bexar County San Antonio–New Braunfels Metro Texas United States Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=San_Antonio_Express-News&oldid=908949294" Categories: Newspapers published in Texas Media in San Antonio Hearst Communications publications Publications established in 1865 Hidden categories: Pages using deprecated image syntax All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from January 2019 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? Español Français Italiano ??????? Edit links This page was last edited on 2 August 2019, at 01:46 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
