Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition - Wikipedia Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search ‹ The template Infobox organization is being considered for merging. › Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition Abbreviation SPARC Formation 1998; 22 years ago (1998) Focus Open access publishing Headquarters Washington, D.C., U.S. Official language English Leader Heather Joseph Subsidiaries Alliance for Taxpayer Access Coalition of Open Access Policy Institutions Affiliations SPARC Europe SPARC Japan SPARC Africa Website sparcopen.org sparceurope.org The Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition (SPARC) is an international alliance of academic and research libraries developed by the Association of Research Libraries in 1998 which promotes open access to scholarship.[1] The coalition currently includes some 800 institutions[1] in North America, Europe, Japan, China and Australia. Richard Johnson served as director 1998-2005.[2] Heather Joseph became executive director in 2005.[3][4] Contents 1 History 2 SPARC Author Addendum 3 Endorsements[clarification needed] 4 See also 5 References 6 Further reading 7 External links History[edit] Play media A video released by SPARC in support of Access2Research, a petition for open-access mandates. The idea of SPARC was presented at the 1997 annual meeting of the Association of Research Libraries.[5][6] Kenneth Frazier,[7] librarian at the University of Wisconsin, proposed that attendees at the meeting develop a fund to create a new publication model for academic journals wherein many libraries contributed to that fund, and from that fund, the contributors would create new publications on some model which lowered the costs of all journals.[5] As founding director, Rick Johnson led the establishment of SPARC in 2002 as a result of so many librarians expressing the desire for reform.[5] Logo of SPARC Europe SPARC Europe was established with LIBER in 2001.[8] David Prosser became director in 2002.[9] SPARC has established itself as an international alliance of academic and research libraries working "to correct imbalances in the scholarly publishing system". Its focus is to stimulate the emergence of new scholarly communication models that expand the dissemination of scholarly research and reduce financial pressures on libraries. Action by SPARC in collaboration with stakeholders – including authors, publishers, and libraries – builds on the opportunities created by the networked digital environment to advance the conduct of scholarship. Leading academic organizations have endorsed SPARC. SPARC Europe Seal for Open Access Journals offers certification for journals choosing the CC-BY license (Creative Commons) and provide the Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ) with metadata on article level.[10] SPARC Author Addendum[edit] SPARC publishes an addendum which authors may use to negotiate with academic publishers. The form provides a templated request by authors to add to the copyright transfer agreement which the publisher sends to the author upon acceptance of their work for publication. Authors which use the form typically retain the rights to use their own work without restriction, receive attribution, and to self-archive. The form gives the publisher the right to obtain a non-exclusive right to distribute a work for profit and to receive attribution as the journal of first publication.[11][12] Endorsements[clarification needed][edit] This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (October 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Founding organizations: Association of American Universities (AAU) Association of American University Presses (AAUP) Big 12 Chief Academic Officers Later endorsements: Association of College & Research Libraries Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada Australian Vice-Chancellors' Committee Canadian Association of Research Libraries Jisc National Association of State Universities and Land Grant Colleges Standing Conference of National and University Libraries See also[edit] Open Access Scholarly Publishers Association, of which SPARC Europe is a founding member Open Access Open educational resources policy Library publishing Open Access Movement in India References[edit] ^ a b David J. Brown; Richard Boulderstone (2008). Impact of Electronic Publishing: The Future for Publishers and Librarians. Germany: K.G. Saur. pp. 200–201. ISBN 978-3-598-44013-7 – via Google Books. ^ "Plan for Low-cost Journals Online". Publishers Weekly. US. 244 (29). July 20, 1998. ^ "SPARC at Ten: A Decade Later, Organization Still Aims to Be Part of The Solution", Library Journal, January 18, 2007, archived from the original on December 2, 2008 ^ "SPARC Staff". SPARC. Retrieved 11 September 2013. ^ a b c Groen, Frances K. (2007). Access to medical knowledge : libraries, digitization, and the public good. Lanham, Mar.: Scarecrow Press. pp. 218–220. ISBN 978-0-8108-5272-3. ^ "Will journal publishers perish?", The Economist, UK, May 11, 2000 ^ Carol Kaesuk Yoon (December 8, 1998), "Soaring Prices Spur a Revolt in Scientific Publishing", New York Times ^ "About Us". SPARC. Retrieved 11 September 2013. ^ "SPARC Europe Hires Director". Library Journal. August 30, 2002. ^ "Europe and North America - Global Open Access Portal". UNESCO. Retrieved 2017-05-11. ^ "Author rights". arl.org. 2013. Retrieved 11 September 2013. ^ "Author rights" (PDF). SPARC. Retrieved 11 September 2013. Further reading[edit] David D. Kirkpatrick (December 25, 2000), "Librarians Unite Against Cost of Journals", New York Times "OpenCon: Students and Early-Career Researchers for Open Access, Open Education, and Open Data", Information Today, US, December 2, 2014, ISSN 8755-6286 External links[edit] Official website SPARC Europe SPARC Japan Authority control LCCN: no00064716 NKC: ko2009549603 NLI: 002091002 VIAF: 139444834 WorldCat Identities: lccn-no00064716 v t e Open access History Timeline Concepts Gratis versus libre Subscription business model Paywall Copyright transfer agreement Academic journal Scientific journal Manuscript Preprint Postprint Article processing charge Predatory publishing Statements Budapest Open Access Initiative Berlin Declaration Bethesda Statement Durham Statement NIH Public Access Policy Research Works Act Strategies Open access journal ("gold OA" ) Self-archiving ("green OA" ) Open-access policy Mandate Open access repository Hybrid open access journal Delayed open access journal Projects + organizations Creative Commons Directory of Open Access Books [ca] Directory of Open Access Journals Initiative for Open Citations Open Access Scholarly Publishers Association Open Archives Initiative Open Knowledge Open Society Foundations Plan S Public Library of Science Registry of Open Access Repositories Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition Sci-Hub Other Access to knowledge movement Access2Research By location Africa: South Africa Americas: Canada Asia: India Europe: France Germany Spain Oceania: Australia List of open-access journals List of open access projects List of repositories Public Knowledge Project The Cost of Knowledge Open content - Open data - Open education - Open government - Open hardware - Open knowledge - Open science - Open source v t e Free-culture and open-source movements Concepts and practices Key concepts Commons-based peer production Crowdsourcing Gratis versus libre Open collaboration Openness Participatory culture Sharism Social peer-to-peer processes Peer-to-peer banking Peer-to-peer carsharing Peer-to-peer lending Peer-to-peer ridesharing Research and science Citizen science Open science Access Notebook science Research Science data Plan S Data, information, and knowledge Free content Knowledge commons Open communication Open knowledge Content Data Communication and learning Media Collaborative writing Democratic media Open publishing Participatory media Peer review Education Open education Educational resources University Admissions Open-door academic policy Journalism Citizen media Citizen journalism and Wiki journalism Open-source journalism Economy, production, and development Products Free and open-source software - FOSS Free/Libre software Open-source software Open-design movement Robotics Open gaming Open-source architecture Open-source hardware Economic principles Gift economy Open innovation Open patent Open standard Sharing economy Politics and governance Open government Open-source governance Organizations Creative Commons Free Software Foundation Open Architecture Network Openmod initiative Open Knowledge International Open Rights Group Open Source Initiative Open Web Foundation P2P Foundation Pirate Party PLOS SPARC Activists Tim Berners-Lee Alexandra Elbakyan Cody Wilson Lawrence Lessig Peter Murray-Rust Douglas Rushkoff Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Matthew H. Todd John Wilbanks Projects and movements DIYbio Free-culture movement Free software movement Open science movement Open Source Ecology Open-source software movement OpenCores OpenWetWare Sci-Hub Tools Licenses Creative Commons GPL Definition Docs Free Cultural Works Free Software Open Open Source Open Data Indices Open educational resources Open music model Open Web movement Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Scholarly_Publishing_and_Academic_Resources_Coalition&oldid=937417986" Categories: Open access projects Scholarly communication Organizations established in 1998 Lobbying organizations in the United States Political advocacy groups in the United States Organizations based in Washington, D.C. Hidden categories: Wikipedia articles needing clarification from October 2015 Articles needing additional references from October 2015 All articles needing additional references Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with NKC identifiers Wikipedia articles with NLI identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Articles containing video clips Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikisource Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Deutsch Français Nederlands ??? ??????? Türkçe ?????????? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 24 January 2020, at 22:10 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
