Sheizaf Rafaeli - Wikipedia Sheizaf Rafaeli From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search ‹ The template Infobox academic is being considered for merging. › Sheizaf Rafaeli Born (1955-06-07) June 7, 1955 (age 64) Israel Occupation CMC expert, professor Spouse(s) Anat Rafaeli Academic work Main interests Computers as Media, E-Learning, Management, E-Government, E-Politics, Information Website rafaeli.net Sheizaf Rafaeli (Hebrew: ???? ??????) (born June 7, 1955) is an Israeli researcher, scholar of computer-mediated communication and newspaper columnist. He is professor and dean at the School of Management (Graduate School of Business Administration) Haifa GSB, University of Haifa Israel and additionally director of the Center for Internet Research Center for Internet Research and the Games for Managers Project. In the 1980s and 1990s he served as head of the Information Systems area at the Graduate School of business in the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. He is a senior research fellow at the Samuel Neaman Institute for National Policy, Technion. Contents 1 Biography 2 Academic and journalism career 3 Awards and recognition 4 Published works 5 References 6 External links 7 Further reading Biography[edit] Sheizaf Rafaeli was born in Kibbutz Maagan Michael. His maternal grandfather was Israeli Prime Minister Levi Eshkol. He graduated from the Hebrew Reali School in Haifa. He served as an officer in the Israeli military in combat units; he was discharged in 1977. He received his B.A. from the University of Haifa, M.A. from Ohio State University, M.A., and Ph.D., Stanford University. Sheizaf is married to Anat Rafaeli, they have three sons and live in Haifa, Israel. Academic and journalism career[edit] Rafaeli was the educational director of the cadet school of the Hebrew Reali School in Haifa. He has written software and books on graphics, electronic spreadsheets and statistical analysis, and a textbook on information systems for the Open University. He is co-editor, (with Fay Sudweeks and Margaret McLaughlin), of Network and NetPlay: Virtual Groups on the Internet published by MIT Press, 1998. He served as co-coordinator of the international ProjectH. He served as founder and co-editor of The Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, and initiated the SHIL (Citizen's Advice Board) online service. He is a member of several journal editorial boards, including those of JCMC, ITSharenet and IJKL. Rafaeli is a director of NPTech Israel, and of StartUpSeeds. He is also a member of the board at the Wikimedia foundation. Sheizaf is a member of the Stockholm International Challenge Jury for Information Systems' Projects. Sheizaf has held visiting research and teaching positions at Ohio State University, Michigan State University, IBM, Stanford University, Technion, Israeli College of Management, and the University of Michigan. His work on Interactivity and Virtual Community, published by MIT Press, JCMC, and Oxford University Press is widely cited in the Information, Computer-Mediated Communication, Internet and Communication Research literatures. Rafaeli's research covers issues of the Value of Information, Information Overload, Social Networks and Network Analysis, Information Sharing, and digital life. From October 2006, he has served as chair of the School of Management (Business Administration), at the University of Haifa. Rafaeli is a member of the Scientific Management of the Learning in a Networked Society (LINKS) national Center of Research Excellence (ICORE), where he studies the role of online tools in learning, teaching and education. He writes weekly columns for the Calcalist and Globes financial and business daily newspapers in Israel and the YNet news site. Awards and recognition[edit] Young researcher award of the AERA 2006 WebAward "Angels in the Net" (Mlachim Bareshet") national award Published works[edit] Jones, G. Ravid, G. and Rafaeli S. (2004) Information Overload and the Message Dynamics of Online Interaction Spaces: A Theoretical Model and Empirical Exploration, Information Systems Research Vol. 15 Issue 2, pp. 194–210. Rafaeli, S. (1988). Interactivity: From new media to communication[permanent dead link]. In R. P. Hawkins, J. M. Wiemann, & S. Pingree (Eds.), Sage Annual Review of Communication Research: Advancing Communication Science: Merging Mass and Interpersonal Processes, 16, 110–134. Beverly Hills: Sage. Rafaeli, S. and Ariel, Y. (2007) "Assessing Interactivity in Computer-Mediated Research", in Joinson, A.N., McKenna, K.Y.A., Postmes, T. and Rieps, U.D. (Eds.) The Oxford Handbook of Internet Psychology, Oxford University Press, (Chapter 6, pp. 71–88) 2007 (Final Draft PDF) References[edit] External links[edit] Sheizaf Rafaeli's personal home page NetWork and NetPlay: MIT Press Blackwell Publishing JCMC website The Center for Internet Research website Rafaeli's YNet column Further reading[edit] Haaretz newspaper interview Galei Zahal Israeli Radio personal interview[permanent dead link] with Yaacov Agmon Calcalist Interview weekend Magazine, August 2018 Authority control BNF: cb135229809 (data) ISNI: 0000 0000 0132 0541 LCCN: n88614744 NLI: 000259379 SUDOC: 070987793 VIAF: 69088390 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n88614744 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Sheizaf_Rafaeli&oldid=929273340" Categories: 1955 births Eshkol family Living people Israeli columnists Israeli computer scientists Israeli journalists Israeli newspaper editors Israeli science writers Technology writers Hebrew University of Jerusalem faculty Israeli Jews Jewish scientists Jewish writers Hebrew Reali School alumni Ohio State University alumni Stanford University alumni University of Haifa alumni University of Haifa faculty University of Michigan staff Hidden categories: Articles with hCards Articles containing Hebrew-language text All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from May 2018 Articles with permanently dead external links Articles with dead external links from March 2018 Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with NLI identifiers Wikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? Français ????? Edit links This page was last edited on 4 December 2019, at 19:09 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
