Social Science Research Network - Wikipedia Social Science Research Network From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search "SSRN" redirects here. For the submarine, see USS Triton (SSRN-586). SSRN Producer Elsevier History 1994 to present Languages English Access Cost Mostly fee-free (monetarily gratis) Coverage Disciplines Social sciences, engineering sciences, humanities, life sciences, applied sciences, health and physical sciences Record depth Index, abstract & full-text Format coverage Papers Print edition ISSN 1556-5068 Links Website The SSRN, formerly known as Social Science Research Network, is a repository and international journal devoted to the rapid dissemination of scholarly research in the social sciences and humanities and more. Elsevier bought SSRN from Social Science Electronic Publishing Inc. in May 2016.[1] Contents 1 History 2 Operations 3 See also 4 References 5 External links History[edit] SSRN was founded in 1994 by Michael Jensen and Wayne Marr, both financial economists.[2] In January 2013, SSRN was ranked the biggest open-access repository in the world by Ranking Web of Repositories (an initiative of the Cybermetrics Lab, a research group belonging to the Spanish National Research Council),[3] measured by number of PDF files, backlinks and Google Scholar results.[4] In May 2016, SSRN was bought from Social Science Electronic Publishing Inc. by Elsevier.[1] In July 2016 there were reports of papers being removed from SSRN without notice; revision comments from SSRN indicated this was due to copyright concerns.[5] SSRN CEO Gregg Gordon characterized the issue as a mistake affecting about 20 papers.[6] Starting in 2017, SSRN has been adding new disciplines in areas such as biology, chemistry, engineering, medicine, computer science and more. Operations[edit] Academic papers in PDF format can be uploaded directly to the SSRN site by authors and are then available around the world via download. Users can also subscribe to abstracting emails covering a broad range of research areas and topic specialties. These distributing emails contain abstracts (with links to the full text where applicable) of papers recently submitted to SSRN in the respective field. SSRN, like other preprint services, circulates publications throughout the scholarly community at an early stage, permitting the author to incorporate comments into the final version of the paper before its publication in a journal. Moreover, even if access to the published paper is restricted, access to the original working paper remains open through SSRN, so long as the author decides to keep the paper up. Often authors take papers down at the request of publishers, particularly if they are published by commercial or university presses that depend on payment for paper copies or online access. Academic papers in PDF format can be uploaded directly to the SSRN site by authors and may then be available for downloading.[7] As of 2019, download by users is generally subject to registration or completion of a ReCAPTCHA challenge. Publishers and institutions can upload papers and charge a fee for readers to download them.[8] Users can also subscribe to abstracting email journals covering a broad range of subject matters. These e-journals then periodically distribute emails containing abstracts (with links to the full text where applicable) of papers recently submitted to SSRN in the respective field. On SSRN, authors and papers are ranked by their number of downloads, which has become an informal indicator of popularity on prepress and open access sites.[9] See also[edit] Academic databases and search engines ArXiv SocArXiv Research Papers in Economics References[edit] ^ a b "SSRN — a leading social science and humanities repository and online community — joins Elsevier". www.elsevier.com. Retrieved 17 May 2016. ^ Feltner, Kerry (2016-06-03). "Dutch company acquires firm in Brighton". Rochester Business Journal. Retrieved 2020-03-21. ^ "World". Ranking Web of Repositories. Cybermetrics Lab. January 2013. Archived from the original on 2013-06-29. Retrieved 11 June 2013. ^ "Methodology". Archived from the original on 2013-07-01. ^ Masnick, Mike. "Just As Open Competitor To Elsevier's SSRN Launches, SSRN Accused Of Copyright Crackdown". Techdirt. Retrieved 6 August 2016. ^ Straumsheim, Carl. "There Isn't Some Big Conspiracy Happening". Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved 6 August 2016. ^ https://support.ssrn.com/knowledgebase.php?article=67 ^ Jensen, Michael C. (2 February 2012). "About SSRN". Social Science Research Network. Social Science Electronic Publishing, Inc. Retrieved 30 December 2013. ^ Black, Bernard S.; Caron, Paul (2006). "Ranking Law Schools: Using SSRN to Measure Scholarly Performance". Indiana Law Journal. 81 (Symposium on The Next Generation of Law School Rankings). SSRN 784764. U of Texas law, Law and Econ Research Paper No. 52; U of Cincinnati Public Law Research Paper No. 05-14. External links[edit] Official website v t e RELX Elsevier Imprints Academic Press Butterworth-Heinemann Cell Press Churchill Livingstone Masson Medicine Publishing Morgan Kaufmann Mosby Pergamon Saunders William Andrew Woodhead Publishing Selected journals Biochimica et Biophysica Acta Cell Current Opinion The Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology The Lancet Tetrahedron Trends Other ClinicalKey Ei Compendex Embase GEOBASE HESI Mendeley Reaxys ScienceDirect Scopus SSRN Scirus (defunct) LexisNexis CaseMap Law360 LexisNexis Risk Solutions Martindale-Hubbell Quicklaw Shepard's Citations Reed Business Information Netherlands Elsevier (minority stake) United Kingdom Estates Gazette Farmers Weekly Flight International Kellysearch Poultry World United States CMD (49%) Reed Exhibitions Arabian Travel Market BookExpo America Chicago Comic & Entertainment Expo Gamer Network EGX Eurogamer Mod DB Rock, Paper, Shotgun VG247 Emerald City Comic Con Equitana Florida Supercon Global Gaming Expo London Book Fair MCM London Comic Con MIPCOM MIPIM National Hardware Show New York Comic Con PAX World Travel Market Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Social_Science_Research_Network&oldid=946603926" Categories: Eprint archives Open-access archives Organizations established in 1994 Social sciences literature Hidden categories: Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Deutsch Español ????? Bahasa Indonesia ????? Português Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Edit links This page was last edited on 21 March 2020, at 06:32 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
