SOS Children's Villages UK - Wikipedia SOS Children's Villages UK From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search ‹ The template Infobox organization is being considered for merging. › SOS Children's Villages UK Founded 1963 (1963), Lavender Hill, London, United Kingdom Type Charity Registration no. 1069204 Focus Alternative care for children who cannot live with their parents Location Cambridge, United Kingdom Area served Worldwide Website www.soschildrensvillages.org.uk SOS Children's Villages UK, is a child sponsorship charity based in Cambridge in the United Kingdom. It is part of the international group SOS Children's Villages – the largest international charity group dedicated to the care of orphaned and abandoned children. The charity is registered under the working names "SOS Children" and "World Orphan Week" (a fundraising event held once a year) with the Charity Commission. Internationally, SOS Children's Villages works in 134 countries and territories, of which it provides services in 125. Its slogan is "A loving home for every child". Programmes include SOS Children's Villages which are communities that offer a new family home for orphaned and abandoned children, and family strengthening services which foster community development and help to prevent child abandonment.[1] The charity is non-denominational and works in the spirit of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Since 1995, SOS Children's Villages has worked with the United Nations to help governments and organisations support children who have lost or are at risk of losing parental care. In 2009, the charity worked with other experts to develop the UN Guidelines for the Alternative Care of Children.[2] In 1969 chairman of SOS Children's Villages UK, Dickson Mabon attempted to arrange the construction of Children's Villages in Scotland. However, he was refused permission to build the Villages on planning grounds by the local authorities concerned.[3] Contents 1 Supporters and Ambassadors 2 World Orphan Week 3 Our Africa 4 Wikipedia for Schools 5 Trustees 6 References Supporters and Ambassadors[edit] This section may be confusing or unclear to readers. Please help us clarify the section. There might be a discussion about this on the talk page. (November 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Supporters include Stephen Hawking, Alexander McCall Smith, Anyika Onuora, Richard Attenborough, Kate Humble and Wayne Rooney.[4] International Ambassador, as of April 2014, is Belgian footballer Vincent Kompany.[5] Angelina Jolie is a long-term supporter and has visited SOS Children's Villages in Haiti, Ethiopia and Jordan.[6] Nelson Mandela was a supporter of SOS Children's Villages work in South Africa and officially opened the SOS Children's Village in Cape Town.[7] Upon his death in December 2013, SOS Children's Villages joined in memorials to celebrate his life. The Dalai Lama supports SOS Children, particularly the SOS Children's Villages in North India, which provide a home for child refugees from Tibet. World Orphan Week[edit] Main article: World Orphan Week In 2005 SOS Children's Villages UK founded World Orphan Week (WOW), a campaign which runs annually. The project aims to raise awareness about the large number of children missing one or both parents around the world. The campaign works with schools, universities, individuals, companies, and community groups to hold events on a local and national scale to raise awareness and funds for the organisation. In 2018 World Orphan Week will be held on 3–10 February. Our Africa[edit] In 2011 SOS Children's Villages UK created a new web site "Our Africa"[8] which won the New Media category of the One World Media Awards.[9] Our Africa is an educational site with many short videos and articles created to celebrate 40 years of SOS Children's Villages work in Africa. Many of the videos are devised and filmed by children across Africa. Wikipedia for Schools[edit] Since 2006, SOS Children's Villages UK has produced an offline selection from Wikipedia, based around the UK national curriculum and targeted at a school-age audience. The project was initially aimed at schools in the developing world, where internet access is often limited, but has also proved popular in developed countries as well. This is partly because all content is checked to ensure suitability for children and relevance to the classroom, making it safe for use in schools. As well as being an offline resource available on request, it is also available online. It was last updated in 2013. Trustees[edit] Current trustees are Mary Cockcroft (Chairman), George Windsor, Earl of St Andrews, Michael Brewer, Graham Budd, Ayesha Khan, Matthew de Villiers, and Thomas Bauer. References[edit] ^ About Us ^ "UN Guidelines for the Alternative Care of Children". Archived from the original on 7 July 2014. Retrieved 19 June 2014. ^ "J Dickson Mabon". 13 April 2008. ISSN 0307-1235. Retrieved 5 June 2019. ^ "Our Ambassadors". Archived from the original on 6 January 2017. Retrieved 5 January 2017. ^ Vincent Kompany joins SOS Children as International Ambassador ^ AngelinaJolieUNHCR (11 February 2010), Angelina Jolie Visited Haiti SOS Children's Villages 2010, retrieved 5 June 2019 ^ SOS Children's Village Cape Town ^ Our Africa web site: Children across Africa have made films to show you what life is like in their own countries. ^ "One World Media:Awards 2012". Archived from the original on 10 August 2016. Retrieved 5 January 2017. v t e Recipients of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Peace Prize 2009: Eric Lubbock (Lord Avebury) 2010: Abdul Sattar Edhi 2011: SOS Children's Villages UK 2012: Oheneba Boachie-Adjei 2013: Magnus MacFarlane-Barrow 2014: Sindhutai Sapkal 2015: Hadeel Qasim Hussein Al-Okbi 2016: Setsuko Thurlow 2017: Leonid Roshal Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=SOS_Children%27s_Villages_UK&oldid=933430671" Categories: Development charities based in the United Kingdom Charities based in Cambridgeshire Children's charities based in the United Kingdom SOS Children's Villages Hidden categories: Use dmy dates from February 2019 Pages using deprecated image syntax Pages using infobox organization with unknown parameters Wikipedia articles needing clarification from November 2019 All Wikipedia articles needing clarification Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 31 December 2019, at 22:28 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
