Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Spelling - Wikipedia Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Spelling From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia < Wikipedia:Manual of Style Jump to navigation Jump to search For guidelines on which national variety of English to use in an article (grammar, spelling, and capitalization/capitalisation), see Wikipedia:Manual of Style § National varieties of English. "WP:MOSS" redirects here. For the typo-cleanup project, see Wikipedia:Typo Team/moss. This guideline is a part of the English Wikipedia's Manual of Style. It is a generally accepted standard that editors should attempt to follow, though it is best treated with common sense, and occasional exceptions may apply. Any substantive edit to this page should reflect consensus. When in doubt, discuss first on the talk page. Shortcuts WP:SPELLING WP:MOSS MOS:S MOS:SPELL MOS:SPELLING See also: List of dialects of the English language and Wikipedia:Spellchecking Manual of Style (MoS) Content Accessibility Biography Disambiguation pages Hidden text Infoboxes Linking Self-references Words to watch Formatting Abbreviations Capital letters Dates and numbers Pronunciation Spelling Text formatting Titles Images Captions Galleries Icons Images Layout Layout Lead section Tables Trivia sections Lists Lists Lists of works Road junctions Stand-alone lists Legal Legal Trademarks By topic area Arts Comics Film Lyrics and Poetry Novels Philosophy Television Video games Visual arts Writing about fiction Music Music samples Record charts Stringed instruments Category Regional Specific naming conventions Canada China and Chinese-related France Hawaii India Ireland Japan Korea Pakistan Philippines Poland Singapore Trinidad and Tobago Religion Islam Latter Day Saints Science Chemistry Computer science Computing Mathematics Medicine Sports Cue sports Snooker Related guidelines Article size Article titles Categories, lists, and navigation templates Categorization Citing sources Hatnotes Military history Signatures Subpages Talk page guidelines Template namespace Understandability User pages Wikimedia sister projects WikiProjects Overview Contents Tips v t e The following is a handy reference for editors, listing various common spelling differences between national varieties of English. Please note: If you are not familiar with a spelling, please do some research before changing it – it may be your misunderstanding rather than a mistake, especially in the case of American and British English spelling differences. Contents 1 English spelling comparison chart 2 Other spelling differences 2.1 Preferred variants 2.2 Archaic spelling 2.3 Different spellings, different meanings 3 International organizations 3.1 British English with "-ise" 3.2 British English with "-ize" (Oxford spelling) 3.3 American English 4 Tools and reference articles 5 Notes 6 References 7 External links English spelling comparison chart[edit] See also: Wikipedia:Manual of Style/Spelling/Words ending with "-ise" or "-ize" This table gives the accepted spellings (following government guidelines and major dictionaries). It is by no means exhaustive, but rather an overview. When two variants appear, the one listed first is more widely used. (For example, in Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, the UK and Ireland, ageing is more common than aging; in Canada and the US, aging is more common.) The spelling systems of unlisted Commonwealth countries, such as India, Pakistan and Singapore, are generally close to the British spelling system, with possibly a few local differences. Some non-Commonwealth English-speaking countries, such as the Philippines and Liberia, have spelling systems closer to American spelling. With some exceptions, boxes in green show use of British spellings and those in violet show use of US spellings. Boxes in pink indicate that both spellings are used. UK & Ireland[1] South Africa[2] New Zealand[3] Australia[4] Canada[5] United States[6][7] acknowledgement acknowledgement acknowledgement acknowledgement, acknowledgment acknowledgement, acknowledgment acknowledgment aeroplane aeroplane aeroplane aeroplane airplane airplane ageing, aging ageing, aging ageing, aging ageing, aging aging, ageing aging, ageing all right all right all right alright, all right all right alright, all right aluminium aluminium aluminium aluminium aluminum aluminum authorise, authorize authorise, authorize authorise authorise, authorize authorize, authorise authorize analyse analyse analyse analyse analyze, analyse analyze artefact artefact artefact artefact, artifact artifact artifact cancelled cancelled cancelled cancelled cancelled canceled catalogue catalogue catalogue catalogue catalogue catalog, catalogue centre centre centre centre centre center civilisation, civilization civilisation, civilization civilisation, civilisation, civilization civilization, civilisation civilization colour colour colour colour colour color co-operation co-operation co-operation cooperation, co-operation co-operation, cooperation cooperation defence defence defence defence defence defense dialogue dialogue dialogue dialogue dialogue dialog/dialogue (conversation), dialog (text) diarrhoea diarrhoea diarrhoea diarrhoea, diarrhea diarrhea diarrhea encyclopaedia encyclopaedia encyclopaedia encyclopedia, encyclopaedia encyclopedia encyclopedia empanel, impanel empanel, impanel empanel, impanel impanel, empanel impanel, empanel impanel, empanel foetus, fetus foetus foetus foetus, fetus fetus fetus jail, gaol jail, gaol jail jail, gaol jail jail grey grey grey grey grey gray, grey fulfil fulfil fulfil fulfil fulfill, fulfil fulfill honour honour honour honour honour honor instalment instalment instalment instalment instalment, installment installment judgement, judgment judgement, judgment judgement judgement, judgment judgment, judgement judgment kerb kerb kerb (roadside) curb (restrain) kerb (roadside) curb (restrain) curb curb labour labour labour labour[8] labour labor licence (n.), license (v.) licence (n.), license (v.) licence (n.), license (v.) licence (n.), license (v.) licence (n.), license (v.) license (n.) and (v.) liquorice liquorice liquorice licorice, liquorice licorice licorice manoeuvre manoeuvre manoeuvre manoeuvre manoeuvre maneuver meagre meagre meagre meagre meagre meager mould mould mould mould mould mold organisation, organization organisation, organization organisation organisation, organization organization, organisation organization plough plough plough plough plow, plough plow practice (n.), practise (v.) practice (n.), practise (v.) practice (n.), practise (v.) practice (n.), practise (v.) practice (n.), pract(ise/ice) (v.) practice (n. and v.) computer program, training programme computer program, training programme computer program, training programme computer program, training program/me theatre program/me computer program, training program computer program, training program pyjamas pyjamas pyjamas pyjamas pyjamas, pajamas pajamas routeing, routing routeing, routing routeing, routing routeing, routing routing routing sceptic sceptic sceptic sceptic skeptic, sceptic skeptic sombre sombre sombre sombre sombre somber sulphur sulphur sulphur sulfur, sulphur sulfur, sulphur sulfur theatre theatre theatre theatre theatre theater, also theatre travelling travelling travelling travelling travelling traveling, travelling tyre tyre tyre tyre tire tire veranda veranda verandah verandah veranda veranda vice (fault and tool) vice (fault and tool) vice (fault and tool) vice (fault and tool) vice (fault) vise (tool) vice (fault) vise (tool) yogurt, yoghurt, yoghourt yoghurt, yogurt yoghurt, yogurt yoghurt, yogurt yogourt, yogurt, yoghurt, yoghourt yogurt UK & Ireland South Africa New Zealand Australia Canada United States See Notes for explanations of the references above. Other spelling differences[edit] Throughout this section, the variants here regarded as "British" are also used in Australia (in most cases), as well as in other Commonwealth countries and in Ireland. Canadian spelling combines British and American. Preferred variants[edit] In both British English and American English, many words have variant spellings, but most of the time one variant is preferred over the other. In dictionaries, the preferred spelling is listed first among the headwords of an entry. Examples follow: acknowledgement vs acknowledgment: acknowledgement is preferred in British English,[9] acknowledgment in American English. judgement vs judgment: judgement is preferred in British English (except in the sense of a judge's decision, in which case judgment is preferred), judgment in American English. per cent vs percent: per cent is preferred in British English, percent in American English. dialogue vs dialog: In a non-technical context, the spelling dialogue is preferred in American English. In Webster's dictionary, dialogue is given first, and Chambers also indicates dialog is less used in North America.[10] catalogue vs catalog: Webster's treats this case differently, as does Chambers[11]—catalog is the preferred spelling in American English. glamour vs glamor: The spelling glamour is preferred in both British and American English. (Glamourous is sometimes found in American English, but is usually considered incorrect in British English, where glamorous is the only accepted form.) foetus vs fetus: In American English, foetus is never used. In British English, usage is divided. In academic literature, fetus is preferred. aluminium vs aluminum: aluminum is the prevalent spelling throughout North America; however, in scientific literature aluminium should be used, as recommended by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry. (The two spellings also have different pronunciations.) sulphur vs sulfur: sulphur is the prevalent spelling outside North America; however, in scientific literature sulfur should be used, as recommended by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry. (see Sulfur#Spelling and etymology) caesium vs cesium: cesium is the prevalent spelling throughout North America; however, in scientific literature caesium should be used, as recommended by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry.) Archaic spelling[edit] Older sources use many archaic variants (such as shew for show), which are not to be used outside quotations except in special circumstances (for example, quire may be used instead of choir in architectural contexts). When archaic spelling is used in the title of a work, modernize the spelling in the text of the article but retain the original spelling in the references. For example, the text of an article might read "Thomas Ady attacked the Demonology of King James..." while the citation should read Daemonologie, In Forme of a Dialogie, Diuided into three Bookes. By James Rx, 1597....". Adding a <!-- comment --> may help prevent well-meaning editors from correcting the spelling "mistakes". As per WP:Manual of Style § Quotations, archaic glyphs should be modernized, including within quotations and titles (e.g., æ?ae, œ?oe, ??s, and ye?the). Archaic spellings (including capitalization, punctuation, and emphasis that would be non-standard today) are retained in quotations, and we rarely need to provide any translations into Modern English if the source material is Elizabethan or later. For Middle English, treat it on a case-by-case basis, but always provide translation for Old English. Different spellings, different meanings[edit] Several words change their meaning when spelt differently. cheque – check: to check is to ensure; outside the US, a bill of exchange drawn on a bank payable on demand is a "cheque". kerb – curb: In British English, 'kerb' is the edge of the road or pavement (UK) where "kerbstones" can be found. In the US, it is spelled "curb", and may be attached to a sidewalk. "To curb" is to limit or control in either dialect. disc – disk: Outside of computing, in British English the usual spelling is disc (meaning a thin flat circular object); in American English disk and disc are normally interchangeable. However, in computing (in both British & American English), disk usually refers to magnetic disks, as in hard disk drives, dating back to the first magnetic disks used by US-developed mainframe computers. Disc usually refers to optical discs, beginning with the Compact Disc (developed outside the US) and continuing with DVD (the last "D" of the acronym usually meaning "disc" regardless of its uncertain etymology), Blu-ray Disc, and even defunct formats such as HD DVD. draught – draft: In the UK draft is a preliminary version of a document, while draught is a drink or a current of air; all are usually spelled "draft" in the US, but "draught" has been making a comeback in reference to beverages. enquiry – inquiry: for most British writers, an enquiry is a request for information, but an inquiry is a formal investigation. ensure – insure: To ensure is to make sure. In British English, to insure is to take out an insurance policy. In American English, to insure is sometimes used instead of to ensure.[12][13] judgement – judgment: In Australian and British law, a judge's decision in a case is always spelt judgment. On the other hand, the forming of opinion or conclusion by an ordinary person is usually spelt judgement. metre – meter: in most countries other than the US, metre is the metric unit of length, and meter is a measuring device; in these dialects metre is also the rhythm of a line of verse, but the word as part of the technical name of a given metre (pentameter, hexameter, etc.) is spelled -meter. programme – program: In British English, the spelling program can be used for computer program. In all other cases, programme is invariably used. In Australia, program is widespread in all contexts, but a printed list (entertainment or ceremony) is commonly programme. storey – story: a story is a tale; outside of the US, upper floors of buildings are spelt "storey".[14] theatre – theater: Many uses of either spelling can be found in American English. Both theater and theatre are commonly used among theatre professionals. The spelling theatre can be seen in names like the Kodak Theatre and AMC Theatres. However, the spelling theater is used for the various venues at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, and all major American newspapers, such as The New York Times's theater section[15] to refer to both the dramatic arts as well as to the buildings where performances take place. The Columbia University Guide to Standard American English states that "theater" is used except in proper names.[16] tyre – tire: In American and Canadian English, tire is used to refer to "fatigue" and the inflated rim of a wheel. In British and other forms of English, tire means 'to fatigue' and tyre is the inflated rim of a wheel. International organizations[edit] There are three major English spelling standards used by international organizations and publishers: British English with "-ise"[edit] Shortcut WP:ISE Spellings: centre, programme, labour, defence, organisation; recognise, advise, devise, advertise, and analyse Language tag (a code identifying the language used): en-GB. Examples of organizations adhering to this standard: European Union (EU), Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Commonwealth Secretariat (Commonwealth of Nations), African Union (AU), Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS), International Olympic Committee (IOC), Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA), Transparency International, Greenpeace. The UK government does not seem to have an official position on spelling, though it often uses this variant in communications. Major publications: The Economist, The Times, Financial Times, New Scientist, The Lancet, BBC, The Guardian. British English with "-ize" (Oxford spelling)[edit] Shortcut MOS:IZE Spellings: centre, programme, labour, defence, organization; recognize, but: advise, devise, advertise, and analyse Language tag: en-GB-oxendict Oxford spelling is based on the Oxford English Dictionary,[17] and followed by Collins[18] and Cassell's[19] dictionaries, whereas Chambers lists both ?ize and ?ise for British English.[20] The Concise Oxford English Dictionary notes that "the form ize has been in use in English since the 16th century. The alternative spelling ise (reflecting a French influence) is in common use, especially in British English".[21] Examples of organizations adhering to this standard: United Nations organizations (UN, WHO, UNESCO, UNICEF, ITU, ILO, etc.), World Trade Organization (WTO), International Organization for Standardization (ISO), International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), UK Armed Forces and Ministry of Defence, Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), International Criminal Police Organization (Interpol), International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), Amnesty International, World Economic Forum, and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Major publications: Nature, The Times Literary Supplement, Encyclopædia Britannica (despite being an American publication since 1911) American English[edit] Spellings: center, program, labor, defense, organization; recognize, but: advise, devise, advertise, and analyze Language tag: en-US Examples of organizations adhering to this standard: the US government, International Monetary Fund, World Bank, Organization of American States, NAFTA Secretariat. Major publications: International New York Times, The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, Time, Newsweek, Science, Scientific American Tools and reference articles[edit] User:Ohconfucius/EngvarB – Script to convert the entire contents of a page from American spelling to British spelling (with an option for using Oxford spelling – the default operation being non-Oxford British English) Comparison of American and British English American and British English spelling differences See Category:Varieties of English templates to explicitly identify a national style of spelling. {{Engvar}} built inside a template: allows an editor to set the variant by |engvar=, then the prepared template can adjust its spellings. Notes[edit] ^ Chambers 2003; There are two British English spelling standards, with different requirements for -ise and -ize suffixes; see International organizations above. ^ South African Concise Oxford Dictionary. Cape Town: Oxford University Press Southern Africa. 2002. ISBN 0195718046. ^ The New Zealand Oxford Paperback Dictionary. Auckland, N.Z: Oxford University Press. 1998. ISBN 0195584104. ^ Yallop, C., ed. (2005). Macquarie Dictionary (4th ed.). North Ryde, N.S.W: Macquarie University. ISBN 1-876429-14-3. ^ Barber, Katherine, ed. (2004). Canadian Oxford Dictionary (2nd ed.). Don Mills, Ont: Oxford University Press. p. xiii. ISBN 0-19-541816-6. The main headword represents the most common form in Canadian usage. ^ Chambers 1998, p. xx. ^ Merriam–Webster's Collegiate Dictionary (11th ed.). Springfield, Mass: Merriam-Webster, Inc. 2003. ISBN 0-87779-809-5. ^ Except in the name Australian Labor Party. ^ Chambers 1998, p. 13; Oxford Advanced 1974, p. 8; while Collins 1997, p. 898 lists 'acknowledgement' as the only entry. ^ Chambers 1998, p. 445. ^ Chambers 1998, p. 255. ^ Learning English | BBC World Service ^ Peters, p. 285: "But in North American English insure covers both meanings, and ensure is simply a variant spelling." (Emphasis as original.) ^ Peters, Pam (2004). "storey or story". The Cambridge Guide to English Usage. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. p. 517. ISBN 0-521-62181-X. ^ "Theater section". The New York Times. Retrieved 10 December 2010. ^ Wilson, Kenneth G. (1993). "theater, theatre". The Columbia Guide to Standard American English. New York: Columbia University Press. p. 435. ^ Oxford Advanced 1974, pp. viii, 29, 228, 477, 602, 678, 715; and Oxford Illustrated 1976. ^ Collins 1997. ^ Cassell 1985. ^ Chambers 1998, p. xx. ^ Allen, Robert, ed. (1990). "Definition of -ize". The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Current English (8th ed.). Oxford: Clarendon Press. ISBN 0-19-861243-5. References[edit] The Chambers Dictionary. Edinburgh: Chambers. 2000 [1998]. ISBN 0-550-14000-X. The Chambers Dictionary (9th ed.). Edinburgh: Chambers. 2003. ISBN 0-550-10013-X. Hornby, Albert S.; Cowie, Anthony P.; Lewis, Jack W., eds. (1974). Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary of Current English. London: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-431102-3. Rébora, Piero; Guercio, Francis M.; Hayward, Arthur L., eds. (1985) [1967]. Cassell's Italian-English, English-Italian Dictionary: Dizionario Italiano-Inglese, Inglese-Italiano (7th ed.). London: Cassell. ISBN 0-304-52253-8. The Oxford Illustrated Dictionary. Great Britain: Oxford University Press. 1976 [1975]. Terrell, Peter (1997). Collins German-English, English-German Dictionary (3rd ed.). Glasgow: HarperCollins. ISBN 0-00-470580-7. External links[edit] "British Spelling standards". Ars Semantica. 12 August 2006. "Dave VE7CNV's Truly Canadian Dictionary of Canadian Spelling". Dave VE7CNV. 2007. v t e Manual of Style Overview Directory Tips Content Accessibility Biographies Disambiguation pages Infoboxes Linking Self-references Words to watch Formatting Abbreviations Capitalization Dates and numbers Pronunciation Proper names Spelling Text formatting Titles Images Captions Galleries Icons Images Layout Layout Lead section Tables Trivia sections Lists Embedded lists Lists Lists of works Road junctions Stand-alone lists Legal Legal Trademarks Arts Anime & Manga Comics Film Lyrics and Poetry Novels Television Video games Visual arts Writing about fiction Music Music Music samples Record charts Regional Canada China France Hawaii India Ireland Japan Korea Malaysia Philippines Poland Singapore Trinidad and Tobago Religion Islam Latter Day Saints Science Chemistry Computer commands Mathematics Medicine Taxonomy Sports Cue sports Snooker Related Article size Article titles Categories, lists, and navigation templates Categorization Citing sources Hatnotes Military history Signatures Subpages Talk page guidelines Template namespace Understandability User pages Wikimedia sister projects WikiProjects Search Book Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Manual_of_Style/Spelling&oldid=947190577" Categories: Wikipedia Manual of Style (formatting) Wikipedia spelling Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Project page Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item In other projects Wikivoyage Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans Alemannisch ??????? ????? Boarisch Català ?eština Deutsch Español ????? Français Hrvatski Jawa Lëtzebuergesch Limburgs Magyar Bahasa Melayu Mirandés Piemontèis Plattdüütsch Português Ripoarisch Român? Simple English Tagalog ???? Edit links This page was last edited on 24 March 2020, at 21:00 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
John@Moses.ca
