Statutory law - Wikipedia Statutory law From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Written law set down by a legislature or by a legislator This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) The examples and perspective in this article deal primarily with Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States and do not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (July 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Statutory law" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (January 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (July 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article needs attention from an expert in Law. The specific problem is: Likely original research needs to be investigated. Furthermore, the article disproportionately covers Anglosphere countries and needs to globalize. WikiProject Law may be able to help recruit an expert. (July 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Statutory law or statute law is written law passed by a body of legislature. This is as opposed to oral or customary law; or regulatory law promulgated by the executive or common law of the judiciary.[1] Statutes may originate with national, state legislatures or local municipalities. Contents 1 Codified law 2 Private law (particular law) 3 See also 4 References 5 External links Codified law[edit] Main article: Codification (law) The term codified law refers to statutes that have been organized ("codified") by subject matter; in this narrower sense, some but not all statutes are considered "codified." The entire body of codified statute is referred to as a "code," such as the United States Code, the Ohio Revised Code or the Code of Canon Law. The substantive provisions of the Act could be codified (arranged by subject matter) in one or more titles of the United States Code while the provisions of the law that have not reached their "effective date" (remaining uncodified) would be available by reference to the United States Statutes at Large.[2] Another meaning of "codified law" is a statute that takes the common law in a certain area of the law and puts it in statute or code form. Private law (particular law)[edit] Another example of statutes that are not typically codified is a "private law" that may originate as a private bill, a law affecting only one person or a small group of persons. An example was divorce in Canada prior to the passage of the Divorce Act of 1968.[3] If unavailable by administrative or judicial means, it was possible to obtain a legislative divorce by application to the Senate of Canada, which reviewed and investigated petitions for divorce, which would then be voted upon by the Senate and subsequently made into law. In the United Kingdom Parliament, private bills were used in the nineteenth century to create corporations, grant monopolies and give individuals attention to be more fully considered by the parliament. The government may also seek to have a bill introduced unofficially by a backbencher so as not to create a public scandal; such bills may also be introduced by the loyal opposition — members of the opposition party or parties. Sometimes a private member's bill may also have private bill aspects, in such case the proposed legislation is called a hybrid bill.[4] See also[edit] Legislation Legislative intent Plain meaning rule Statutory interpretation Strict constructionism Textualism References[edit] ^ "Common law - The modernization of common law in Great Britain". Encyclopedia Britannica. Retrieved 2019-02-01. ^ "Statutes at Large Home Page: U.S. Congressional Documents". memory.loc.gov. Retrieved 2019-02-01. ^ "Divorce Law in Canada (96-3e)". publications.gc.ca. Retrieved 2019-02-01. ^ "Hybrid Bills". UK Parliament. Retrieved 2019-02-01. External links[edit] Parliamentary Fact Sheets United Kingdom v t e Law Core subjects Administrative law Civil law Constitutional law Contract Criminal law Deed Equity Evidence International law Law of obligations Procedure Civil Criminal Property law Public law Restitution Statutory law Tort Other subjects Agricultural law Aviation law Banking law Bankruptcy Commercial law Competition law Conflict of laws Construction law Consumer protection Corporate law Cyberlaw Election law Energy law Entertainment law Environmental law Family law Financial law Financial regulation Health law History of the legal profession History of the American legal profession Immigration law Intellectual property International criminal law International human rights International slavery laws Jurimetrics Labour Law of war Legal archaeology Legal fiction Maritime law Media law Military law Probate Estate Will and testament Product liability Public international law Space law Sports law Tax law Transport law Trust law Women in law Sources of law Charter Code Constitution Custom Divine right Divine law Human rights Natural law Natural and legal rights Case law Precedent Law making Ballot measure Codification Decree Edict Executive order Proclamation Legislation Delegated legislation General executory decree Regulation Rulemaking Promulgation Repeal Treaty Concordat Statutory law Statute Act of Parliament Act of Congress (US) Legal systems Civil law Common law Chinese law Legal pluralism Religious law Canon law Hindu law Jain law Jewish law Sharia Roman law Socialist law Statutory law Xeer Yassa Legal theory Contract theory Critical legal studies Comparative law Feminist Fundamental theory of canon law Law and economics Legal formalism History International legal theory Principle of legality Rule of law Sociology Jurisprudence Adjudication Administration of justice Criminal justice Court-martial Dispute resolution Fiqh Lawsuit/Litigation Legal opinion Legal remedy Judge Justice of the peace Magistrate Judgment Judicial review Jurisdiction Jury Justice Practice of law Attorney Barrister Counsel Lawyer Legal representation Prosecutor Solicitor Question of fact Question of law Trial Trial advocacy Trier of fact Verdict Legal institutions Bureaucracy The bar The bench Civil society Court Election commission Executive Judiciary Law enforcement Legal education Law school Legislature Military Police Political party Tribunal Category Index Outline Portal Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Statutory_law&oldid=942675617" Categories: Statutory law Hidden categories: Articles with short description Articles with limited geographic scope from July 2018 Canada-centric United Kingdom-centric USA-centric Articles needing additional references from January 2011 All articles needing additional references Articles that may contain original research from July 2018 All articles that may contain original research Articles needing expert attention from July 2018 All articles needing expert attention Law articles needing expert attention Articles with multiple maintenance issues Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? ????????? Deutsch ???????? Esperanto ??? ?????? Lietuvi? ??? ??????? ????? Simple English Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 26 February 2020, at 03:44 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
