Students for Free Culture - Wikipedia Students for Free Culture From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article may need to be rewritten to comply with Wikipedia's quality standards. You can help. The discussion page may contain suggestions. (November 2010) ‹ The template Infobox organization is being considered for merging. › Students for Free Culture Website freeculture.org Students for Free Culture, formerly known as FreeCulture.org, is an international student organization working to promote free culture ideals, such as cultural participation and access to information. It was inspired by the work of former Stanford, now Harvard, law professor Lawrence Lessig, who wrote the book Free Culture, and it frequently collaborates with other prominent free culture NGOs, including Creative Commons, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, and Public Knowledge. Students for Free Culture has over 30 chapters on college campuses around the world,[2] and a history of grassroots activism. Students for Free Culture is sometimes referred to as "FreeCulture", "the Free Culture Movement", and other variations on the "free culture" theme, but none of those are its official name. It is officially Students for Free Culture, as set for in the new bylaws that were ratified by its chapters on October 1, 2007, which changed its name from FreeCulture.org to Students for Free Culture.[3] Contents 1 Goals 2 Purpose 3 History 3.1 Initial stirrings at Swarthmore College 3.2 OPG v. Diebold case 3.3 FreeCulture.org launching at Swarthmore 3.4 Internet campaigns 3.5 Increased emphasis on local chapters 4 Structure 5 References 6 External links Goals[edit] Students for Free Culture has stated its goals in a "manifesto": The mission of the Free Culture movement is to build a bottom-up, participatory structure to society and culture, rather than a top-down, closed, proprietary structure. Through the democratizing power of digital technology and the Internet, we can place the tools of creation and distribution, communication and collaboration, teaching and learning into the hands of the common person -- and with a truly active, connected, informed citizenry, injustice and oppression will slowly but surely vanish from the earth.[4] It has yet to publish a more "official" mission statement, but some of its goals are: decentralization of creativity—getting ordinary people and communities involved with art, science, journalism and other creative industries, especially through new technologies reforming copyright, patent, and trademark law in the public interest, ensuring that new creators are not stifled by old creators making important information available to the public Purpose[edit] According to its website,[5] Students for Free Culture has four main functions within the free culture movement: Creating and providing resources for its chapters and for the general public Outreach to youth and students Networking with other people, companies and organizations in the free culture movement Issue advocacy on behalf of its members History[edit] Initial stirrings at Swarthmore College[edit] Students for Free Culture had its origins in the Swarthmore Coalition for the Digital Commons (SCDC), a student group at Swarthmore College. The SCDC was founded in 2003 by students Luke Smith and Nelson Pavlosky, and was originally focused on issues related to free software, digital restrictions management, and treacherous computing, inspired largely by the Free Software Foundation.[6] After watching Lawrence Lessig's OSCON 2002 speech entitled "free culture"[7] however, they expanded the club's scope to cover cultural participation in general (rather than just in the world of software and computers), and began tackling issues such as copyright reform. In September 2004, SCDC was renamed Free Culture Swarthmore, laying the groundwork for Students for Free Culture and making it the first existing chapter. OPG v. Diebold case[edit] Within a couple of months of founding the SCDC, Smith and Pavlosky became embroiled in the controversy surrounding Diebold Election Systems (now Premier Election Solutions), a voting machine manufacturer accused of making bug-ridden and insecure electronic voting machines. The SCDC had been concerned about electronic voting machines using proprietary software rather than open source software, and kept an eye on the situation. Their alarm grew when a copy of Diebold's internal e-mail archives leaked onto the Internet, revealing questionable practices at Diebold and possible flaws with Diebold's machines, and they were spurred into action when Diebold began sending legal threats to voting activists who posted the e-mails on their websites. Diebold was claiming that the e-mails were their copyrighted material, and that anyone who posted these e-mails online was infringing upon their intellectual property. The SCDC posted the e-mail archive on its website and prepared for the inevitable legal threats. Diebold sent takedown notices under the DMCA to the SCDC's ISP, Swarthmore College. Swarthmore took down the SCDC website, and the SCDC co-founders sought legal representation.[8] They contacted the Electronic Frontier Foundation for help, and discovered that they had an opportunity to sign on to an existing lawsuit against Diebold, OPG v. Diebold, with co-plaintiffs from a non-profit ISP called the Online Policy Group who had also received legal threats from Diebold. With pro bono legal representation from EFF and the Stanford Cyberlaw Clinic, they sued Diebold for abusing copyright law to suppress freedom of speech online. After a year of legal battles, the judge ruled that posting the e-mails online was a fair use, and that Diebold had violated the DMCA by misrepresenting their copyright claims over the e-mails. The network of contacts that Smith and Pavlosky built during the lawsuit, including dozens of students around the country who had also hosted the Diebold memos on their websites, gave them momentum they needed to found an international student movement based on the same free culture principles as the SCDC. They purchased the domain name Freeculture.org and began building a website, while contacting student activists at other schools who could help them start the organization. FreeCulture.org launching at Swarthmore[edit] On April 23, 2004, Smith and Pavlosky announced the official launch of FreeCulture.org,[9] in an event at Swarthmore College featuring Lawrence Lessig as the keynote speaker[10][11] (Lessig had released his book Free Culture less than a month beforehand.) The SCDC became the first Freeculture.org chapter (beginning the process of changing its name to Free Culture Swarthmore), and students from other schools in the area who attended the launch went on to found chapters on their campuses, including Bryn Mawr College and Franklin and Marshall.[12] Internet campaigns[edit] FreeCulture.org began by launching a number of internet campaigns, in an attempt to raise its profile and bring itself to the attention of college students. These have covered issues ranging from defending artistic freedom (Barbie in a Blender) to fighting the Induce Act (Save The iPod), from celebrating Creative Commons licenses and the public domain (Undead Art) to opposing business method patents (Cereal Solidarity). While these one-shot websites succeeded in attracting attention from the press and encouraged students to get involved, they didn't directly help the local chapters, and the organization now concentrates less on web campaigns than it did in the past. However, their recent Down With DRM video contest was a successful "viral video" campaign against DRM, and internet campaigns remain an important tool in free culture activism. Increased emphasis on local chapters[edit] Today[when?] the organization focuses on providing services to its local campus chapters, including web services such as mailing lists and wikis, pamphlets and materials for tabling, and organizing conferences where chapter members can meet up. Active chapters are located at schools such as New York University (NYU), Harvard, MIT, Fordham Law, Dartmouth, University of Florida, Swarthmore, USC, Emory, Reed, and Yale. The NYU chapter made headlines when it began protesting outside of record stores against DRM on CDs during the Sony rootkit scandal,[13] resulting in similar protests around New York and Philadelphia.[14] In 2008, the MIT chapter developed and released YouTomb, a website to track videos removed by DMCA takedown from YouTube.[15] Other activities at local chapters include: art shows featuring Creative Commons-licensed art,[16][17] mix CD-exchanging flash mobs,[18] film-remixing contests,[19][20] iPod liberating parties, where the organizers help people replace the proprietary DRM-encumbered operating system on their iPods with a free software system like Rockbox,[21] Antenna Alliance,[22] a project that provides free recording space to bands, releases their music online under Creative Commons licenses, and distributes the music to college radio stations,[23] a campaign to promote open access on university campuses.[24] Structure[edit] Students for Free Culture began as a loose confederation of student groups on different campuses, but it has been moving towards becoming an official tax-exempt non-profit. With the passage of official bylaws, Students for Free Culture now has a clear governance structure which makes it accountable to its chapters. The supreme decision-making body is the Board of Directors, which is elected once a year by the chapters, using a Schulze method for voting. It is meant to make long-term, high-level decisions, and should not meddle excessively in lower-level decisions. Practical everyday decisions will be made by the Core team, composed of any students who are members of chapters and meet the attendance requirements. Really low-level decisions and minutiae will be handled by a coordinator, who ideally will be a paid employee of the organization, and other volunteers and assistants. A new board of directors was elected in February 2008,[25] and a new Core Team was assembled shortly thereafter. There is no coordinator yet.[when?] References[edit] ^ Students for Free Culture » About. URL:http://freeculture.org/about/. Accessed: 2011-12-04. (Archived by WebCite® at https://www.webcitation.org/query?url=http%3A%2F%2Ffreeculture.org%2Fabout%2F&date=2011-12-04) ^ FreeCulture.org, Students for Free Culture chapters ^ FreeCulture.org, Students for Free Culture's new bylaws ^ FreeCulture.org, Free Culture manifesto ^ FreeCulture.org Archived December 5, 2011, at WebCite, About Students for Free Culture ^ SwarthMore.edu, "New group to fight RIAA, Microsoft" from the Swarthmore Phoenix, ^ Lessig, Lawrence. "FreeCulture.org crosses 13 - Lessig". Retrieved June 25, 2016. ^ "File Sharing Pits Copyright Against Free Speech". The New York Times. November 3, 2003. Retrieved June 25, 2016. ^ FreeCulture.org, Students for Free Culture blog: Official Launch ^ Nelson Pavlosky (January 1, 2004). "Lessig speaks at Swarthmore". Retrieved June 25, 2016 – via Internet Archive. ^ LegalAffairs.org, Legal Affairs article on the launch ^ Wired.com, Wired News - "Students Fight Copyright Hoarders" ^ "USATODAY.com - Firestorm rages over lockdown on digital music". Retrieved June 25, 2016. ^ "Copy Cats", PhiladelphiaWeekly.com ^ Guo, Jeff. "YouTomb Takes Stock of YouTube Takedowns". Retrieved September 9, 2008. ^ FreeCultureNYU.org, NYU's CC art show ^ SharingIsDaring.org, "Sharing is Daring" CC art show at Harvard ^ FreeCulture.org, Santa Cruz "face to face peer to peer" flashmob ^ FreeCultureNYU.org, NYU's Film Remix 2006 ^ BoingBoing.net, USC FC NOTLD speed remix contest ^ Business.NewsForge.com, Newsforge - Liberating iPods in Cambridge ^ "?????????????????????????????". Retrieved June 25, 2016. ^ ThePhoenix.com, Boston Phoenix, Antenna Alliance Offers Free Studio Time ^ FreeCulture.org, FreeCulture Taking Action on Open Access ^ FreeCulture.org, Spring 2008 Board Election results External links[edit] Official homepage Blog posts about Students for Free Culture/FreeCulture.org in the media v t e Intellectual property activism Issues Artificial scarcity Copyright infringement Copyright troll Digital rights management Gripe site Legal aspects of file sharing Mashup digital music videos Monopolies of knowledge Music piracy Orphan works Patents biological software software patent debate trolling Public domain Concepts All rights reversed Alternative compensation system Anti-copyright notice Business models for open-source software Copyleft Commercial use of copyleft works Commons-based peer production Electronic sell-through Free content Free software license Libertarian positions Open content Open-design movement Open Music Model Open patent Open-source Open-source hardware Open-source software Prize system contests Share-alike Video on demand Movements Access to Knowledge movement Anti-copyright Cultural environmentalism Free-culture movement Free software movement Organizations Pro-copyright Copyright Alliance Pro-copyleft Creative Commons Electronic Frontier Foundation Free Software Foundation Open Rights Group Organization for Transformative Works The Pirate Bay Piratbyrån Pirate Party Public Knowledge Sci-Hub Students for Free Culture People Cory Doctorow Alexandra Elbakyan Rick Falkvinge Lawrence Lessig Richard Stallman Peter Suber Peter Sunde Aaron Swartz Documentaries Steal This Film (2006, 2007) Good Copy Bad Copy (2007) RiP!: A Remix Manifesto (2008) TPB AFK: The Pirate Bay Away From Keyboard (2013) The Internet's Own Boy (2014) Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Students_for_Free_Culture&oldid=844406025" Categories: 2007 establishments in the United States Copyright law organizations Free content Intellectual property activism Political advocacy groups in the United States Student political organizations in the United States Hidden categories: Webarchive template webcite links Wikipedia articles needing rewrite from November 2010 All articles needing rewrite Use mdy dates from June 2016 Pages using infobox organization with unknown parameters All articles with vague or ambiguous time Vague or ambiguous time from June 2016 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Español Italiano Edit links This page was last edited on 4 June 2018, at 18:22 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
