Subdomain - Wikipedia Subdomain From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search DNS domains that are part of others For a protein domain inside of a larger domain, see Protein domains. In the Domain Name System (DNS) hierarchy, a subdomain is a domain that is a part of another (main) domain.[1] Contents 1 Overview 2 Uses 2.1 Vanity domain 2.2 Server cluster 2.2.1 Subdomains versus directories 3 See also 4 References Overview[edit] The Domain Name System (DNS) has a tree structure or hierarchy, with each non-RR (resource record) node on the tree being a domain name. A subdomain is a domain that is part of a larger domain; the only domain that is not also a subdomain is the root domain.[1] For example, west.example.com and east.example.com are subdomains of the example.com domain, which in turn is a subdomain of the com top-level domain (TLD). A "subdomain" expresses relative dependence, not absolute dependence: for example, wikipedia.org comprises a subdomain of the org domain, and en.wikipedia.org comprises a subdomain of the domain wikipedia.org. Each label may contain from 1 to 63 octets. The empty label is reserved for the root node and when fully qualified is expressed as the empty label terminated by a dot. The full domain name may not exceed a total length of 253 ASCII characters in its textual representation.[2] Thus, when using a single character per label, the limit is 127 levels: 127 characters plus 126 dots have a total length of 253. In practice, some domain registries may have shorter limits. Subdomains in this context are defined by editing the DNS zone file pertaining to the parent domain. However, there is an ongoing debate over the use of the term “subdomain” when referring to names which map to the Address record A (host) and various other types of zone records which may map to any public IP address destination and any type of server. Certain[which?] groups insist that it is inappropriate to use the term “subdomain” to refer to any mapping other than that provided by zone NS (name server) records and any server-destination other than that. Uses[edit] In the United Kingdom, the second-level domain names are standard and branch off from the top-level domain. For example: .ac.uk - academic (tertiary education, further education colleges and research establishments) and learned societies .co.uk - general use (usually commercial) .gov.uk - government (central and local) .judiciary.uk - courts (to be introduced in the near future)[3] .ltd.uk - limited companies .me.uk - general use (usually personal) .mod.uk - Ministry of Defence and HM Forces public sites .net.uk - ISPs and network companies (unlike .net, use is restricted to these users) .nhs.uk - National Health Service institutions .nic.uk - network use only (Nominet UK) .org.uk - general use (usually for non-profit organisations) .parliament.uk - parliamentary use (only for the UK Parliament and the Scottish Parliament) .plc.uk - public limited companies .police.uk - police forces .sch.uk - Local Education Authorities, schools, primary and secondary education, community education Subdomains are also used by organizations that wish to assign a unique name to a particular department, function, or service related to the organization. For example, a university might assign "cs" to the computer science department, such that a number of hosts could be used inside that subdomain, such as mail.cs.example.edu or www.cs.example.edu. Vanity domain[edit] A vanity domain is a subdomain of an ISP's domain that is aliased to an individual user account, or a subdomain that expresses the individuality of the person on whose behalf it is registered. Server cluster[edit] Depending on application, a record inside a domain, or subdomain might refer to a hostname, or a service provided by a number of machines in a cluster. Some websites use different subdomains to point to different server clusters. For example, www.example.com points to Server Cluster 1 or Datacentre 1, and www2.example.com points to Server Cluster 2 or Datacentre 2 etc.. Some domains host their nameservers as ns1.example.com, ns2.example.com, etc., and these do not typically show up in search engine results. Subdomains versus directories[edit] Subdomains are different from directories. For example, example.com/yn points to a directory within the example.com domain, not to a subdomain of example.com. See also[edit] Domain name Hostname Subdirectory Webpage Subpage Vanity domain References[edit] ^ a b P. Mockapetris (November 1987). "Name space specifications and terminology". Domain names - concepts and facilities. IETF. sec. 3.1. doi:10.17487/RFC1034. RFC 1034. Retrieved 2008-08-03. ^ RFC 1035, Domain names--Implementation and specification, P. Mockapetris (Nov 1987) ^ "BBC News - UK court systems set to adopt judiciary.uk domain names". BBC News. 23 November 2011. Retrieved 26 February 2014. Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Subdomain&oldid=940270980" Categories: Domain name system Hidden categories: Pages using RFC magic links Use American English from February 2019 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Articles with short description All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from March 2015 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? Català Deutsch Español ????? Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Magyar Nederlands ??? Polski Português Român? ??????? Simple English ??? ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 11 February 2020, at 15:04 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Henry@Emil.ca
