Sue Gardner - Wikipedia Sue Gardner From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Canadian journalist & former executive director of the Wikimedia Foundation Sue Gardner Gardner in 2019 Born (1967-05-11) May 11, 1967 (age 52) Barbados[1] Nationality Canadian Alma mater Ryerson University Known for Former executive director, Wikimedia Foundation (2007–2014) Website Official website Sue Gardner (born May 11, 1967)[2] is a Canadian journalist, not-for-profit executive and business executive. She was the executive director of the Wikimedia Foundation from December 2007 until May 2014,[3] and before that was the director of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation's website and online news outlets. In 2012, she was ranked as the 70th-most powerful woman in the world by Forbes magazine.[4] In 2013, she joined the board of Global Voices.[5] In May 2015, the Tor Project announced that Gardner would be assisting the project with the development of their long-term organizational strategy.[6] In 2018, she was announced as executive director of The Markup.[7] Gardner left this position in May 2019. Contents 1 Early life 2 Career 2.1 Journalism 2.2 Wikimedia 2.3 Tor and First Look 2.4 The Markup 3 See also 4 References 5 External links Early life[edit] Gardner was born in Barbados.[1] She grew up in Port Hope, Ontario, Canada, the daughter of an Anglican priest and a school principal.[8] She received a degree in journalism from Ryerson University.[8] Career[edit] Journalism[edit] Gardner began her career on Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) radio in 1990 on the program As It Happens, and worked for more than a decade as a producer, reporter and documentary-maker for CBC Radio current-affairs and for Newsworld International, focusing on pop culture and social issues.[9] In March 2006, she succeeded Claude Galipeau as senior director of CBC.ca, the CBC website and Internet platform, building its staff from 35 to 160.[10][11][12] Wikimedia[edit] In May 2007, Gardner resigned from CBC, and shortly thereafter began consulting for the Wikimedia Foundation as a special advisor on operations and governance.[13] In December 2007, she was hired as the foundation's executive director.[14] Over the next two years, she oversaw growth of the staff including the addition of a fundraising team, and a move of the headquarters from St. Petersburg, Florida, to San Francisco, California. In October 2009, Gardner was named by The Huffington Post as one of ten "media game changers of the year" for the impact on new media of her work for Wikimedia.[15] One of the issues that Gardner addressed while she was a Wikimedia Foundation executive director was gender bias on Wikipedia. She listed nine reasons why women don't edit Wikipedia, culled from comments by female Wikipedia editors:[16] A lack of user-friendliness in the editing interface Not having enough free time A lack of self-confidence Aversion to conflict and an unwillingness to participate in lengthy edit wars Belief that their contributions are too likely to be reverted or deleted Some find its overall atmosphere misogynistic Wikipedia culture is sexual in ways they find off-putting Being addressed as male is off-putting to women whose primary language has grammatical gender Fewer opportunities than other sites for social relationships and a welcoming tone On March 27, 2013, Gardner announced she would be leaving her position at the Wikimedia Foundation. She stated that the Wikimedia Foundation is doing well now but that the Internet is not, and that she planned to help in that area going forward.[17] Gardner identified the "turning point" for her decision to move on as her involvement in the 2012 Wikipedia blackout protesting the Stop Online Piracy Act and the Protect Intellectual Property Act, protests that "started me thinking about the shape the Internet was taking and what role I could play in that."[18] Gardner in 2013 at Wikimania In 2013, Gardner received an honorary doctorate from Ryerson University, her alma mater.[19][20] It was announced on May 1, 2014 that Lila Tretikov would be replacing Gardner, and would take over as executive director of the Wikimedia Foundation on June 1, 2014.[3][21][22][23] Tor and First Look[edit] Gardner joined The Tor Project, Inc to develop a strategic plan, with support from First Look Media.[24][25] The Tor Project is a Massachusetts-based research-education nonprofit organization founded by computer scientists Roger Dingledine, Nick Mathewson and five others. The Tor Project is primarily responsible for maintaining software for the Tor anonymity network.[26] First Look Media is an American news organization founded by Pierre Omidyar that was launched in October 2013 as a venue for "original, independent journalism." The organization is incorporated as a tax-exempt charitable entity.[27][28] The Markup[edit] Main article: The Markup In September 2018, Gardner co-founded The Markup with Julia Angwin and Jeff Larson as a continuation of their work at ProPublica. With $20 million of initial funding from Craig Newmark, the site would work to cover news about "Big Tech" and its impact on the public.[7][29][30] Initially, Gardner was set to serve as executive director, Angwin as editor-in-chief, and Larson as managing editor, with a launch date of early 2019. In April 2019, Gardner fired Angwin over creative and managerial differences.[31] Larson was named editor-in-chief. Five of seven journalists on the staff resigned. In a letter to Newmark, Angwin said Gardner wanted to turn The Markup into a “cause” rather than a “publication.” Angwin also said Gardner ranked reporters in job interviews according to how negative they viewed tech companies and suggested using headlines like "Facebook is a dumpster fire." Gardner responded that The Markup's mission had not changed.[32] Gardner and Larson left The Markup the following month, and Angwin was reinstated as the website's editor-in-chief in August 2019.[33] See also[edit] Biography portal Business and economics portal Canada portal List of Wikipedia people References[edit] ^ a b "US Power Women Born Abroad". Forbes. Retrieved 10 February 2015. ^ "Sue Gardner's Blog". Retrieved February 25, 2012. ^ a b Vreede, Jan-Bart de. "Announcing our new Executive Director: Lila Tretikov". Wikimedia blog. Retrieved 5 May 2014. ^ The World's 100 Most Powerful Women, Sue Gardner. Forbes. Accessed August 23, 2012. ^ Ivan, Sigal. "Wikimedia's Sue Gardner Joins Global Voices Board". Global Voices Online. Retrieved 17 October 2014. ^ arma. "Sue Gardner and the Tor strategy project". Tor Project Blogs. Retrieved 11 May 2015. ^ a b Bowles, Nellie (September 23, 2018). "News Site to Investigate Big Tech, Helped by Craigslist Founder". The New York Times. Retrieved September 23, 2018 – via San Francisco Chronicle. ^ a b Wikipedians do it for love. Really. Globe and Mail. July 26, 2010 ^ From the Lavin Agency's profile Archived 2014-02-03 at the Wayback Machine. ^ Perkins, Tara (July 19, 2006). "CBC clicks online by Tara Perkins". Friends of Canadian Broadcasting. Toronto Star. Archived from the original on October 4, 2006. Retrieved February 7, 2016. ^ Ouimet. "Does CBC.ca run itself?". The Tea Makers. Archived from the original on May 31, 2015. Retrieved February 7, 2016. ^ Martin, Cynthia (March 19, 2017). "Sue Gardner: 'Hubris is the engine of Silicon Valley'". Globe and Mail. Retrieved March 19, 2017. ^ Wikimedia Foundation press release, June 27, 2007. ^ "Sue Gardner Hired as Executive Director", Wikimedia Foundation press release. December 3, 2007 ^ From the series of slides for the 10 Game Changers: Who Is The Ultimate Game Changer In Media? – Sue Gardner. HuffPost. March 18, 2010 ^ Gardner, Sue (19 February 2011). "Nine Reasons Why Women Don't Edit Wikipedia, In Their Own Words". suegardner.org (blog). ^ Please read: an announcement from Wikimedia Foundation ED Sue Gardner « Wikimedia blog ^ Chozick, Amy (March 28, 2013). "Leader of Foundation Behind Wikipedia to Step Down". The New York Times. Retrieved May 30, 2013. ^ "Ken Dryden, Deepa Mehta among honorary doctorate recipients at convocation". Ryerson Today. Ryerson University. Retrieved May 1, 2013. ^ "Honorary Doctorates - Convocation - Ryerson University". Archived from the original on February 2, 2008. Retrieved December 3, 2014. ^ Please welcome Lila Tretikov, the Wikimedia Foundation's new ED Jan-Bart de Vreede, Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees, 1 May 2014. ^ "Wikipedia's New Chief: From Soviet Union to World's Sixth-Largest Site". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved 5 May 2014. ^ Cohen, Noam. "Open-Source Software Specialist Selected as Executive Director of Wikipedia". New York Times. Retrieved 5 May 2014. ^ Sue Gardner and the Tor strategy project - The Tor Project, 6 May 2015 ^ Why I'm working with Tor and First Look - Sue Gardner's Blog, 20 May 2015 ^ "Tor Project: Core People". Tor Project. Retrieved 17 July 2008. ^ "About - First Look Media". FirstLook.org. First Look Media. 2014. Archived from the original on 25 March 2014. Retrieved 25 March 2014. ^ Jay Rosen. "A First Look at NewCo's structure". Pressthink.org. ^ Schmidt, Christine (September 24, 2018). "Watch out, algorithms: Julia Angwin and Jeff Larson unveil The Markup, their plan for investigating tech's societal impacts". Nieman Journalism Lab (NiemanLab) Nieman Foundation for Journalism Harvard University. Cambridge, Mass. Retrieved September 24, 2018. Journalists in every field need to have more skills to investigate those types of decision-making that are embedded in technology. ^ Bowles, Nellie (September 23, 2018). "News Site to Investigate Big Tech, Helped by Craigslist Founder". The New York Times. Retrieved September 23, 2018. ^ "The Markup ousts editor in chief Julia Angwin, prompting resignations". Columbia Journalism Review. Retrieved 2019-04-25. ^ "Julia Angwin Is Out as Editor of New Tech Watchdog Site The Markup". The Markup. Retrieved 2019-02-01. ^ Tracy, Marc (6 August 2019). "The Markup, a Tech News Site, Reinstalls Its Fired Editor as Part of a Fresh Start". The New York Times. Retrieved 29 August 2019. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Sue Gardner. Sue Gardner's personal blog Radio documentary by Gardner about Al Purdy, Canadian poet, for This Morning Sunday Wikipedia's Librarian to the World Fast Company interview Wikinews has related news: Interview with Sue Gardner of the Wikimedia Foundation v t e Wikimedia Foundation People Current Aaron Halfaker James Heilman Dariusz Jemielniak Katherine Maher Jimmy Wales Past Hampton Catlin Danese Cooper Bishakha Datta Florence Devouard Oscar van Dillen Sue Gardner Arnnon Geshuri Mike Godwin Guy Kawasaki Erik Möller Lila Tretikov Luis Villa Patricio Lorente Content projects Wikipedia List of Wikipedias Wiktionary List of Wiktionaries Wikimedia Commons Wikidata Wikiquote Wikibooks Wikisource Wikispecies Wikinews Wikiversity Wikivoyage Other Wikimedia movement List of Wikimedia chapters Wikimania Wiki Indaba MediaWiki Litigation Wikimedia v. NSA Knowledge Engine Related The Signpost Wikipedia Monument v t e Wikipedia Overview (Outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing Criticism gender bias ideological bias racial bias Deletionism and inclusionism MediaWiki Notability Reliability Vandalism Predictions of the project's end Community Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Citation needed Edit-a-thon "Ignore all rules" policy List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikipedian in residence WikiConference North America Wikimania WikiProject Women in Red People Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Erik Möller Ira Brad Matetsky Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales Wikipedians Wikimedian of the Year History Bomis Logo Controversies U.S. Congressional staff edits Essjay controversy Seigenthaler biography incident Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Italian Wikipedia blackout English Wikipedia blackout Hillsborough Wikipedia posts MyWikiBiz Lsjbot VisualEditor Art+Feminism #1Lib1Ref Honors 2008 Quadriga award Wikipedia Monument 2015 Erasmus Prize 2015 Princess of Asturias Award References and analysis Cultural Bibliography Films Academic studies Listen to Wikipedia Wiki-Watch Wikipediocracy WikiScanner Wikipedia Review Mobile access Apps QRpedia Wapedia WikiNodes Wikipedia Zero Wikiwand Content use Books LLC Boundless (company) DBpedia Deletionpedia Kiwix WikiReader Science information Health information Similar projects Interpedia Nupedia Citizendium Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Everipedia Veropedia List of online encyclopedias List of wikis Related Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs Print Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) 274301 Wikipedia Viola wikipedia List Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Sue_Gardner&oldid=943791230" Categories: 1967 births Living people Businesspeople from San Francisco Canadian Broadcasting Corporation people Canadian chief executives Canadian women business executives Women nonprofit executives People from Bridgetown People from Northumberland County, Ontario Ryerson University alumni Wikimedia Foundation staff members Wikipedia people Women chief executives Nonprofit chief executives Canadian Wikimedians Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages Articles with short description Pages using infobox person with unknown parameters Infobox person using residence Articles with hCards Commons category link is on Wikidata Articles containing Spanish-language text Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikinews Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? Az?rbaycanca ????? ?????????? (???????????)? Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch ???????? Español Euskara ????? Français ??? ??????? Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? ?????????? ?????? ???? Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ?????? ??? Norsk bokmål Occitan Polski Português ??????? Sicilianu Simple English Sloven?ina ????? ?????? / srpski Suomi Svenska ??? Türkçe ?????????? ???? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 3 March 2020, at 23:01 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
