Systemic bias - Wikipedia Systemic bias From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article is about the sociological and organizational phenomenon. For the metrology topic referred to as "systematic bias", see Observational error. Inherent tendency of a process to support particular outcomes This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article needs to be updated. Please update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (December 2015) This article needs additional citations for verification. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Systemic bias" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (August 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Systemic bias, also called institutional bias, is the inherent tendency of a process to support particular outcomes. The term generally refers to human systems such as institutions; the equivalent bias in non-human systems (such as measurement instruments or mathematical models used to estimate physical quantities) is often called systematic bias, and leads to systematic error in measurements or estimates. The issues of systemic bias are dealt with extensively in the field of industrial organization economics. Contents 1 In human institutions 2 Major causes 2.1 Counterproductive work behavior 2.2 Mistreatment of human resources 2.2.1 Abusive supervision 2.2.2 Bullying 2.2.3 Incivility 2.2.4 Sexual harassment 2.2.5 Stress 3 Examples 4 Versus systematic bias 5 See also 6 References 7 Further reading In human institutions[edit] Cognitive bias is inherent in the experiences, loyalties, and relationships of people in their daily lives, and new biases are constantly being discovered and addressed on both an ethical and political level. For example, the goal of affirmative action in the United States is to counter biases concerning gender, race, and ethnicity, by opening up institutional participation to people with a wider range of backgrounds, and hence a wider range of points of view. In India, the system of scheduled castes and tribes intends to address systemic bias caused by the controversial caste system, a system centered on organized discrimination based upon one's ancestry, not unlike the system that affirmative action aims to counter. Both the scheduling system and affirmative action mandate the hiring of citizens from within designated groups. However, without sufficient restrictions based upon the actual socio-economic standing of the recipients of the aid provided, these types of system can allegedly result in the unintentional institutionalization of a reversed form of the same systemic bias,[1] which works against the goal of rendering institutional participation open to people with a wider range of backgrounds. Major causes[edit] The study of systemic bias as part of the field titled organizational behavior in industrial organization economics is studied in several principle modalities in both non-profit and for-profit institutions. The issue of concern is that patterns of behavior may develop within large institutions which become harmful to the productivity and viability of the larger institutions from which they develop. The three major categories of study for maladaptive organizational behavior and systemic bias are counterproductive work behavior, human resource mistreatment, and the amelioration of stress-inducing behavior. Counterproductive work behavior[edit] Counterproductive work behavior, or CWB, consists of behavior by employees that harms or intends to harm organizations and people in organizations.[2] Mistreatment of human resources[edit] There are several types of mistreatment that employees endure in organizations. Abusive supervision[edit] Abusive supervision is the extent to which a supervisor engages in a pattern of behavior that harms subordinates.[3] Bullying[edit] Although definitions of bullying vary, it involves a repeated pattern of harmful behaviors directed towards an individual.[4] Incivility[edit] Incivility consists of low-intensity discourteous and rude behavior with ambiguous intent to harm that violates norms for appropriate behavior in the workplace.[5] Sexual harassment[edit] Sexual harassment is behavior that denigrates or mistreats an individual due to his or her gender, creates an offensive workplace, and interferes with an individual being able to do their job.[6] Stress[edit] Occupational stress concerns the imbalance between the demands (aspects of the job that require mental or physical effort) and resources that help cope with these demands.[7] Examples[edit] Further information: Federal reserve and Paul Volcker Financial Week reported May 5, 2008 (emphasis added): But we travel in a world with a systemic bias to optimism that typically chooses to avoid the topic of the impending bursting of investment bubbles. Collectively, this is done for career or business reasons. As discussed many times in the investment business, pessimism or realism in the face of probable trouble is just plain bad for business and bad for careers. What I am only slowly realizing, though, is how similar the career risk appears to be for the Fed. It doesn't want to move against bubbles because Congress and business do not like it and show their dislike in unmistakable terms. Even Federal reserve chairmen get bullied and have their faces slapped if they stick to their guns, which will, not surprisingly, be rare since everyone values his career or does not want to be replaced à la Volcker. So, be as optimistic as possible, be nice to everyone, bail everyone out and hope for the best. If all goes well, after all, you will have a lot of grateful bailees who will happily hire you for $300,000 a pop.[8] Versus systematic bias[edit] The difference between the words systemic and systematic is somewhat ambiguous. "Systemic bias" and the older, more common expression "systematic bias" are often used to refer to the same thing; some users[who?] seek to draw a distinction between them[why?], suggesting that systemic bias is most frequently associated with human systems, and related to favoritism.[citation needed] In engineering and computational mechanics, the word bias is sometimes used as a synonym of systematic error. In this case, the bias is referred to the result of a measurement or computation, rather than to the measurement instrument or computational method.[9] Some authors try to draw a distinction between systemic and systematic corresponding to that between unplanned and planned, or to that between arising from the characteristics of a system and from an individual flaw. In a less formal sense, systemic biases are sometimes said to arise from the nature of the interworkings of the system, whereas systematic biases stem from a concerted effort to favor certain outcomes. Consider the difference between affirmative action (systematic) compared to racism and caste (systemic).[citation needed] See also[edit] Psychology portal Society portal Bandwagon effect Bigotry Cognitive bias Discrimination Disinformation Echo chamber (media) Ethnocentrism Flag-waving Framing (social sciences) Funding bias Gatekeeping (communication) Inherent bias Institutional racism Managing the news Media bias Media manipulation Observational error Paradigm shift Prejudice Propaganda Spin (public relations) Underrepresented groups References[edit] ^ Jaroff, Leon et al. (April 4, 1994) "Teaching Reverse Racism", Time Magazine (subscription required) ^ Spector, P. E., & Fox, S. (2005). The Stressor-Emotion Model of Counterproductive Work Behavior Counterproductive work behavior: Investigations of actors and targets (pp. 151-174). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association; US. ^ Tepper, B. J. (2000). "Consequences of abusive supervision". Academy of Management Journal. 43 (2): 178–190. doi:10.2307/1556375. JSTOR 1556375. ^ Rayner, C., & Keashly, L. (2005). Bullying at Work: A Perspective From Britain and North America. In S. Fox & P. E. Spector (Eds.), Counterproductive work behavior: Investigations of actors and targets. (pp. 271-296). Washington, DC, US: American Psychological Association. ^ Andersson, L. M.; Pearson, C. M. (1999). "Tit for tat? The spiraling effect of incivility in the workplace". Academy of Management Review. 74 (3): 452–471. doi:10.5465/amr.1999.2202131. ^ Rospenda, K. M., & Richman, J. A. (2005). Harassment and discrimination. In J. Barling, E. K. Kelloway & M. R. Frone (Eds.), Handbook of work stress (pp. 149-188). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. ^ Demerouti, E.; Bakker, A. B.; Nachreiner, F.; Schaufeli, W. B. (2001). "The job demands-resources model of burnout". Journal of Applied Psychology. 86 (3): 499–512. doi:10.1037/0021-9010.86.3.499. ^ "Paging Paul Volcker. The former Fed chairman was tougher and less eager to please than his successor, Alan Greenspan", Jeremy Grantham, Financial Week, 5 May 2008 ^ John Robert Taylor (1999). An Introduction to Error Analysis: The Study of Uncertainties in Physical Measurements. University Science Books. p. 94, §4.1. ISBN 978-0-935702-75-0. Further reading[edit] "Commerce Dept. Accused Of Systemic Bias". By John Files. October 6, 2005. New York Times. "Clinton Postpones Inmate's Execution. Systemic Bias To Be Studied". By Deb Riechmann, Associated Press. December 8, 2000. Miami Herald. Articles related to systemic bias v t e Censorship Media regulation Books books banned Films banned films Internet circumvention Music Postal Press Radio Speech and expression Thought Video games banned video games Methods Bleeping Book burning Broadcast delay Burying of scholars Censor bars Chilling effect Concision Conspiracy of silence Content-control software Euphemism Minced oath Expurgation Fogging Gag order Heckling Heckler's veto Internet police Memory hole National intranet Newspaper theft Pixelization Prior restraint Propaganda Purge Revisionism Sanitization Self-censorship Speech code Strategic lawsuit Surveillance computer and network mass Whitewashing Word filtering Damnatio memoriae Contexts Criminal Corporate Hate speech Online Ideological LGBT issues Media bias Moralistic fallacy Naturalistic fallacy Politics Propaganda model Religious Suppression of dissent Systemic bias By country Censorship Chinese issues overseas Freedom of speech Internet censorship v t e Censorship and websites Censorship of Chinese issues overseas Facebook File sharing sites GitHub iTunes Store The Pirate Bay Twitter WikiLeaks Reception in the United States Wikipedia in Turkey in Venezuela YouTube in Germany Censorship by AOL Apple Cisco in China Facebook Twitter Yahoo Google YouTube Microsoft in China Skype in China Myspace in China Websites blocked in Belgium Mainland China India Russia list South Korea North Korean United Kingdom list v t e Biases Cognitive biases Actor-observer Acquiescence Ambiguity Anchoring Attentional Attribution Authority Automation Belief Blind spot Choice-supportive Confirmation Congruence Cultural Distinction Dunning–Kruger Egocentric Emotional Extrinsic incentives Fading affect Framing Correspondence Halo effect Hindsight Horn effect Hostile attribution Impact Implicit In-group Mere-exposure effect Negativity Normalcy Omission Optimism Out-group homogeneity Outcome Overton window Precision Present Pro-innovation Response Restraint Self-serving Social comparison Status quo Time-saving Trait ascription von Restorff effect Zero-risk In animals Statistical biases Estimator Forecast Healthy user Information Psychological Lead time Length time Non-response Observer Omitted-variable Participation Recall Sampling Selection Self-selection Social desirability Spectrum Survivorship Systematic error Systemic Verification Wet Other biases Academic Funding FUTON Inductive Infrastructure Inherent In education Media False balance Vietnam War Norway South Asia Sweden United States Arab–Israeli conflict Ukraine Net Political bias Publication Reporting White hat Bias reduction Cognitive bias mitigation Debiasing Heuristics in judgment and decision-making Lists: General · Memory Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Systemic_bias&oldid=946238840" Categories: Bias Polling terms Hidden categories: Pages containing links to subscription-only content Articles with short description Wikipedia articles in need of updating from December 2015 All Wikipedia articles in need of updating Articles needing additional references from August 2018 All articles needing additional references Articles with multiple maintenance issues All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from September 2013 Wikipedia articles needing clarification from September 2013 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from June 2011 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? ?eština Dansk Italiano ????? Türkçe ?????????? Edit links This page was last edited on 18 March 2020, at 23:19 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Harold@Jesse.gov
