Telstra Corporation Ltd v Desktop Marketing Systems Pty Ltd - Wikipedia Telstra Corporation Ltd v Desktop Marketing Systems Pty Ltd From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from Telstra v Desktop Marketing Systems) Jump to navigation Jump to search This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Telstra Corporation Ltd v Desktop Marketing Systems Pty Ltd" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (November 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Telstra Corporation Ltd v Desktop Marketing Systems Pty Ltd Court Federal Court of Australia Decided 25 May 2001 Citation(s) [2001] FCA 612 Court membership Judge(s) sitting Finkelstein J Desktop Marketing Systems Pty Ltd v Telstra Corporation Ltd Court Full Court of the Federal Court Decided 15 May 2002 Citation(s) [2002] FCAFC 112 Court membership Judge(s) sitting Black CJ, Lindgren & Sackville JJ Telstra Corporation Limited v Desktop Marketing Systems Pty Ltd is a 2001 decision of the Federal Court of Australia related to the originality required to attract copyright protection.[1] Heard before Justice Finkelstein in June 2000, the case concerned the release of a product called "Phonedisc" created by the Respondents, Desktop Marketing Systems. Contents 1 Decision 2 Appeal to the Full Court 3 Subsequent consideration 4 References Decision[edit] In his decision handed down on 25 May 2001, Justice Finkelstein found that the contents of that product, which allowed the user to perform reverse telephone searches by service number, was almost identical in content to the publicly listed directories, even if some of the content was listed in a different fashion. The court found that Telstra, the Australian owner/publisher of the White Pages and Yellow Pages telephone directories, had copyright in the content of those directories. Consequently, the use of the data by the Respondents constituted copyright infringement, and the product was removed from sale. Furthermore, as a result of this decision, a similar web-based directory called "Blackpages", published by 2600 Australia, also terminated its service. Appeal to the Full Court[edit] The Full Court of the Federal Court rejected an appeal by Desktop Marketing Systems, followed the UK approach in Walter v Lane,[2] with emphasis on the effort and expense incurred by Telstra in collecting the data.[3] Subsequent consideration[edit] On 8 February 2010, the decision was overturned in a ruling by Justice Gordon by Telstra v Phone Directories,[4] following the decision of the High Court in IceTV v Nine Network.[5] The ruling stated that copyright was not applicable to these works as Telstra conceded that there was no identifiable author contributing to the publication, even considering third parties, and hence did not represent a sufficient literary effort to warrant protection. Further considerations were raised regarding the level of collaboration required between staff members to warrant the concept of joint authorship, as well as the level of intellectual effort required to arrange and organise the listings. Subsequently, none of the works were established as "original works", noting that there should exist a correlative relationship between originality and authorship. References[edit] ^ Telstra Corporation Limited v Desktop Marketing Systems Pty Ltd [2001] FCA 612 (25 May 2001), Federal Court (Australia) ^ Walter v Lane [1900] AC 539, House of Lords (UK). ^ Desktop Marketing Systems Pty Ltd v Telstra Corporation Ltd [2002] FCAFC 112 (15 May 2002), Federal Court (Full Court) (Australia) ^ Telstra Corporation Ltd v Phone Directories Company Pty Ltd [2010] FCA 44 (8 February 2010), Federal Court (Australia) ^ IceTV Pty Ltd v Nine Network Australia Pty Ltd [2009] HCA 14, (2009) 239 CLR 458 (22 April 2009), High Court (Australia) This article related to Australian law is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e This case law article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Telstra_Corporation_Ltd_v_Desktop_Marketing_Systems_Pty_Ltd&oldid=925324816" Categories: Federal Court of Australia cases Australian intellectual property law 2001 in Australian law 2001 in case law Telstra Australian law stubs Case law stubs Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from November 2019 All articles needing additional references Use Australian English from June 2018 All Wikipedia articles written in Australian English Use dmy dates from June 2018 All stub articles Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Add links This page was last edited on 9 November 2019, at 10:19 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
