Text corpus - Wikipedia Text corpus From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (December 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) In linguistics, a corpus (plural corpora) or text corpus is a large and structured set of texts (nowadays usually electronically stored and processed). In corpus linguistics, they are used to do statistical analysis and hypothesis testing, checking occurrences or validating linguistic rules within a specific language territory. Contents 1 Overview 2 Archaeological corpora 3 Some notable text corpora 4 See also 5 References 6 External links Overview[edit] A corpus may contain texts in a single language (monolingual corpus) or text data in multiple languages (multilingual corpus). Multilingual corpora that have been specially formatted for side-by-side comparison are called aligned parallel corpora. There are two main types of parallel corpora which contain texts in two languages. In a translation corpus, the texts in one language are translations of texts in the other language. In a comparable corpus, the texts are of the same kind and cover the same content, but they are not translations of each other.[1] To exploit a parallel text, some kind of text alignment identifying equivalent text segments (phrases or sentences) is a prerequisite for analysis. Machine translation algorithms for translating between two languages are often trained using parallel fragments comprising a first language corpus and a second language corpus which is an element-for-element translation of the first language corpus.[2] In order to make the corpora more useful for doing linguistic research, they are often subjected to a process known as annotation. An example of annotating a corpus is part-of-speech tagging, or POS-tagging, in which information about each word's part of speech (verb, noun, adjective, etc.) is added to the corpus in the form of tags. Another example is indicating the lemma (base) form of each word. When the language of the corpus is not a working language of the researchers who use it, interlinear glossing is used to make the annotation bilingual. Some corpora have further structured levels of analysis applied. In particular, a number of smaller corpora may be fully parsed. Such corpora are usually called Treebanks or Parsed Corpora. The difficulty of ensuring that the entire corpus is completely and consistently annotated means that these corpora are usually smaller, containing around one to three million words. Other levels of linguistic structured analysis are possible, including annotations for morphology, semantics and pragmatics. Corpora are the main knowledge base in corpus linguistics. The analysis and processing of various types of corpora are also the subject of much work in computational linguistics, speech recognition and machine translation, where they are often used to create hidden Markov models for part of speech tagging and other purposes. Corpora and frequency lists derived from them are useful for language teaching. Corpora can be considered as a type of foreign language writing aid as the contextualised grammatical knowledge acquired by non-native language users through exposure to authentic texts in corpora allows learners to grasp the manner of sentence formation in the target language, enabling effective writing.[3] Archaeological corpora[edit] Text corpora are also used in the study of historical documents, for example in attempts to decipher ancient scripts, or in Biblical scholarship. Some archaeological corpora can be of such short duration that they provide a snapshot in time. One of the shortest corpora in time, may be the 15–30 year Amarna letters texts (1350 BC). The corpus of an ancient city, (for example the "Kültepe Texts" of Turkey), may go through a series of corpora, determined by their find site dates. Some notable text corpora[edit] Main article: List of text corpora See also[edit] Concordance Corpus linguistics Linguistic Data Consortium Natural language processing Natural Language Toolkit Parallel text alignment Search engines: they access the "web corpus". Speech corpus Translation memory Treebank Zipf's Law References[edit] ^ Wo?k, K.; Marasek, K. "A Sentence Meaning Based Alignment Method for Parallel Text Corpora Preparation". Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing. Springer. 275: 107–114. ISBN 978-3-319-05950-1. ISSN 2194-5357. ^ Wo?k, K.; Marasek, K. (2015). "Tuned and GPU-accelerated Parallel Data Mining from Comparable Corpora". Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence. Springer: 32–40. arXiv:1509.08639. ISBN 978-3-319-24032-9. ^ Yoon, H., & Hirvela, A. (2004). ESL Student Attitudes toward Corpus Use in L2 Writing. Journal of Second Language Writing, 13(4), 257–283. Retrieved 21 March 2012. External links[edit] ACL SIGLEX Resource Links: Text Corpora Developing Linguistic Corpora: a Guide to Good Practice Free samples (not free), web-based corpora (45-425 million words each): American (COCA, COHA, TIME), British (BNC), Spanish, Portuguese Intercorp Building synchronous parallel corpora of the languages taught at the Faculty of Arts of Charles University. Sketch Engine: Open corpora with free access TS Corpus - A Turkish Corpus freely available for academic research. Turkish National Corpus - A general-purpose corpus for contemporary Turkish Corpus of Political Speeches, publicly accessible with speeches from United States, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and China, provided by Hong Kong Baptist University Library Russian National Corpus American English Sentence Database v t e Natural language processing General terms Natural language understanding Text corpus Speech corpus Stopwords Bag-of-words AI-complete n-gram (Bigram, Trigram) Text analysis Text segmentation Part-of-speech tagging Text chunking Compound term processing Collocation extraction Stemming Lemmatisation Named-entity recognition Coreference resolution Sentiment analysis Concept mining Parsing Word-sense disambiguation Ontology learning Terminology extraction Textual entailment Truecasing Automatic summarization Multi-document summarization Sentence extraction Text simplification Machine translation Computer-assisted Example-based Rule-based Neural Automatic identification and data capture Speech recognition Speech synthesis Optical character recognition Natural language generation Topic model Pachinko allocation Latent Dirichlet allocation Latent semantic analysis Computer-assisted reviewing Automated essay scoring Concordancer Grammar checker Predictive text Spell checker Syntax guessing Natural language user interface Automated online assistant Chatbot Interactive fiction Question answering Voice user interface Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Text_corpus&oldid=939320504" Categories: Discourse analysis Corpus linguistics Computational linguistics Test items Hidden categories: Articles lacking in-text citations from December 2009 All articles lacking in-text citations Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans ??????? ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)? ????????? Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français Galego ??? ?????? Ido Italiano Lietuvi? Magyar ?????? Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål Polski Português ??????? Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina Suomi ??? ?? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 5 February 2020, at 19:04 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Leon@Franklin.com
