Thomas Jefferson University - Wikipedia Thomas Jefferson University From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Thomas Jefferson University Motto Powered to Do What's Now, Powered to Do What's Next! Type Private Established 1824 Endowment 932.9 million (2019)[1] President Stephen K. Klasko Provost Mark Tykocinski Students 7,831[1] Undergraduates 3,604[1] Postgraduates 4,227[1] Location Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States Campus City, 100 acres (0.4 km²) Affiliations NCAA Division II, CACC Mascot Phil the Ram[2] Website www.jefferson.edu Philadelphia portal Thomas Jefferson University is a private university in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Established in its earliest form in 1824, the university officially combined with Philadelphia University in 2017.[3] To signify its heritage, the university sometimes carries the nomenclature Jefferson (Philadelphia University + Thomas Jefferson University) in its branding. Contents 1 History 1.1 Philadelphia University 1.2 Thomas Jefferson University 1.3 Merger 2 Academics 3 Campus 4 Athletics 5 Notable alumni 6 References 7 External links History[edit] Philadelphia University[edit] At the 1876 Centennial Exposition, local textile manufacturers noticed that Philadelphia's textile industry was falling behind its rivals' capacity, technology, and ability. In 1880, they formed the Philadelphia Association of Manufacturers of Textile Fabrics, with Theodore C. Search as its president, to fight for higher tariffs on imported textiles and to educate local textile leaders. Search joined the board of directors of the Philadelphia Museum and School of Industrial Art (now the Philadelphia Museum of Art and the University of the Arts), thinking it the perfect partner for his plans for a school, and began fundraising in 1882. In early 1884, Search himself taught the first classes of the Philadelphia Textile School to five students at 1336 Spring Garden Street. The school was officially opened on November 5, 1884. The school moved to 1303-1307 Buttonwood Street in 1891, then moved again in 1893. Enrollment had been growing steadily and the school was turning away "bright young fellows" for lack of space. The School acquired the former Philadelphia Institute of the Deaf and Dumb on the corner of Broad and Spruce Streets, which allowed rapid expansion of academic offerings and capacity of students. In 1942, the school was granted the right to award baccalaureate degrees and changed its name to the Philadelphia Textile Institute (PTI). In 1949, having decided to break its ties with the museum, PTI moved to its present site in the East Falls section of Philadelphia. In 1961, the school changed its name again, to Philadelphia College of Textiles & Science, but was still known as Philadelphia Textile for short. The university's student population doubled between 1954 and 1964, and doubled again by 1978, with programs in the arts, sciences, and business administration being introduced. The College purchased an adjoining property in 1972, doubling the size of its campus. In 1976, it offered its first graduate degree, the Master of Business Administration. The purchase of additional properties in East Falls in 1980 and 1988 nearly doubled the campus again, adding classrooms, research laboratories, student residences, and athletic facilities. In 1992, the 54,000-square-foot (5,000 m2) Paul J. Gutman Library opened. During the 1990s, the college began to offer undergraduate majors in a wider range of fields, resulting in the college being granted university status by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1999. The Board of Trustees voted to change the college’s name to Philadelphia University, or PhilaU for short, on July 13, 1999. Thomas Jefferson University[edit] The Tivoli Theater in Philadelphia, first home of the Jefferson Medical College Thomas Jefferson University began as a medical school. During the early 19th century, several attempts to create a second medical school in Philadelphia had been stymied, largely by University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine alumni.[4][5] In an attempt to circumvent that opposition, a group of Philadelphia physicians led by George McClellan sent an 1824 letter to the trustees of Jefferson College (now Washington & Jefferson College) in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, asking them to establish a medical department in Philadelphia.[6] The trustees agreed, establishing the Medical Department of Jefferson College in Philadelphia in 1825.[4][6] In response to a second request, the Pennsylvania General Assembly granted an expansion of Jefferson College's charter in 1826, endorsing the creation of the new department and allowing it to grant medical degrees.[4][6][7] An additional 10 Jefferson College trustees, including Joel Barlow Sutherland, were appointed to supervise the new facility from Philadelphia, owing to the difficulty of managing a medical department on the other side of the state.[6] Two years later, this second board was granted authority to manage the Medical Department, while the Jefferson College trustees maintained veto power for major decisions.[6] The first class was graduated in 1826, receiving their degrees only after the disposition of a lawsuit seeking to close the school.[6] The first classes were held in the Tivoli Theater on Prune Street in Philadelphia, which had the first medical clinic attached to a medical school.[8] Owing to the teaching philosophy of Dr. McClellan, classes focused on clinical practice.[8] In 1828, the Medical Department moved to the Ely Building, which allowed for a large lecture space and the "Pit," a 700-seat amphitheater to allow students to view surgeries.[8] This building had an attached hospital, the second such medical school/hospital arrangement in the nation, servicing 441 inpatients and 4,659 outpatients in its first year of operation.[8] The future founder of gynecology J. Marion Sims studied there from 1834-1835, when he graduated. The relationship with Jefferson College survived until 1838, when the Medical Department received a separate charter, allowing it to operate separately as the Jefferson Medical College.[7][9] At this time, all instructors, including McClellan, were vacated from the school and the trustees hired all new individuals to teach. This has been considered the time at which the school came to be considered a "legitimate" medical school.[4][10] In 1841, Jefferson Medical College hired what would be dubbed "The Faculty of '41", an influential collection of professors including Charles Delucena Meigs and Mütter Museum founder Thomas Dent Mütter. This collection of professors would institute numerous changes to Jefferson—including providing patient beds over a shop at 10th and Sansom Streets in 1844—and the staff would remain unchanged for 15 years.[11] The graduating class of 1849 included a son of college founder Joel Barlow Sutherland, Charles Sutherland, who went on to serve as Surgeon General of the United States Army.[12] In 1882, a Philadelphia Press newspaper story sparked a sensational trial after a journalist caught body snatchers stealing corpses and providing them to Jefferson Medical College for use as cadavers by medical students. Four grave robbers were arrested and sentenced to Moyamensing Prison for stealing bodies and selling them to Jefferson Medical College at the rate of $8 a body.[13] After the arrests, it was determined that the body snatching had been going on for nine years and several hundred corpses had been sold to Jefferson Medical College.[14] The renowned surgeon and Jefferson Medical College anatomy professor, William S. Forbes, was arrested for his role in the grave robbery but was acquitted[15] Forbes helped write the 1867 Pennsylvania Law named the "Anatomy Act" which called for hospitals, prisons and mental health wards to provide the bodies of those that had no family or funds for burial to medical schools for anatomical research.[13] Due in part to the Lebanon Cemetery grave robbery scandal, the Pennsylvania Anatomy Act of 1883 was passed which provided for legal means by which medical colleges could obtain cadavers without having to buy them from grave robbers.[15] A 125-bed hospital, one of the first in the nation affiliated with a medical school, opened in 1877, and a school for nurses began in 1891. The Medical College became Thomas Jefferson University on July 1, 1969. As an academic health care center, Jefferson is currently involved in education, medical research, and patient care. Jefferson Medical College is the 9th oldest American medical school that is in existence today.[16] Thomas Eakins' painting The Gross Clinic, housed at Jefferson University from 1876 to 2006 In January 2007, the university sold Thomas Eakins' painting The Gross Clinic, which depicts a surgery that took place at the school, for $68 million, to the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, in association with the Philadelphia Museum of Art.[17] A reproduction hangs in its place at Jefferson University. On June 17, 2014, Sidney Kimmel donated $110 million to Jefferson Medical College, prompting the announcement that Jefferson Medical College would be renamed Sidney Kimmel Medical College.[18] Merger[edit] In May 2017, the two universities announced that they would merge to become Thomas Jefferson University.[19] Academics[edit] Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania Jefferson offers 160+ undergraduate and graduate programs, including the former Philadelphia University's flagship colleges: College of Architecture and the Built Environment Kanbar College of Design, Engineering and Commerce College of Science, Health and the Liberal Arts School of Continuing and Professional Studies Campus[edit] There are two campuses and a research center. East Falls: The university's East Falls 100-acre (40 ha) wooded campus is located ten minutes northwest of Center City, Philadelphia on SEPTA's Chestnut Hill West commuter rail line. The campus consists of 52 buildings, including classrooms, laboratories, studios, the Paul J. Gutman Library, student resident facilities, an exhibition gallery, and the latest additions, the 72,000-square-foot (6,700 m2) Kanbar Campus Center for students, faculty and staff; the Gallagher Athletic, Recreation and Convocation Center; the LEED Gold Center for Sustainability, Energy Efficiency and Design; the PhilaU Residences at Falls Center, and the innovative DEC Center. A subsidiary campus is located in Bucks County.[20] Downtown: The university's center city Philadelphia campus, medical offices, and hospital (called Jefferson Health) are headquartered at 130 South Ninth Street and surrounding city blocks. Manayunk Research Center: In addition to its major properties, Jefferson runs the Philadelphia University Research Center, which is housed in a restored textile mill (originally opened in 1864) in the Manayunk section of Philadelphia, just south of the main campus. The research center contains both the Engineering and Design Institute and the Laboratory for Engineered Human Protection.[21] Athletics[edit] The Jefferson sports teams are known as the Jefferson Rams. The merged school chose to retain PhilaU's nickname and the athletic program follows the overall institution in using the branding of "Jefferson" when describing the university as a whole. The university is known for its men's basketball program, particularly coach Herb Magee, who became the most successful men's basketball coach in NCAA history on February 23, 2010, and was inducted into the Class of 2011 of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame. Now in his 46th season, Magee is celebrating 54 years at Philadelphia University as a student, player and coach, highlighted by an NCAA Division II Basketball Championship in 1970. Magee was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters by President Stephen Spinelli Jr. at Philadelphia University's 125th Commencement in 2009.[1] The university women's basketball program is under Athletic Director and Women's Basketball Coach Tom Shirley. Shirley, who has been the University’s director of athletics since 1992, has won 607 games, which places him sixth on the NCAA DII career wins list and 30th on the NCAA all-divisions career coaching wins list. On January 19, 2011, Shirley took his 600th win as the Rams defeated Chestnut Hill College 76–60. Bob File played for the PhilaU Rams men's baseball program.[citation needed] In the 2006–2007 season, Philadelphia University started a rowing program under head coach Chris O'Brien. In its inaugural season it won the Dad Vail Regatta in the Women's Novice Heavy Eight. The 2008–2009 season was also notable for the success of the men's and women's tennis teams, with both winning the CACC (Central Atlantic Collegiate Conference).[citation needed] Notable alumni[edit] Adrian Brooks ('78), former professional soccer player. James P. Bagian, physician, engineer, and former NASA astronaut. Pat Chambers, Penn State University men's basketball coach. Jacob Mendes Da Costa, discoverer of Da Costa's syndrome. Bob File, ex-Major League Baseball player, Toronto Blue Jays. Carlos Finlay, pioneer in the research of yellow fever, determining that it was transmitted through Aedes aegypti. William S. Forbes, professor of anatomy. John Heysham Gibbon, inventor of the heart-lung machine; awarded the Lasker Prize. Robert Gallo, discoverer of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus; awarded the Lasker Prize twice. Kermit Gosnell, abortion provider and convicted child murderer.[22] Samuel D. Gross, academic trauma surgeon; referred to as "The Emperor of American Surgery". Malcolm C. Grow, first Surgeon General of the United States Air Force. Chevalier Jackson, father of endoscopy (alongside Philipp Bozzini). Maurice Kanbar ('52, H'03), inventor and philanthropist. Herbert Kleber, American psychiatrist and substance abuse researcher. William Williams Keen, first neurosurgeon to successfully remove a brain tumor. Curtis King, ex-Major League Baseball player, St. Louis Cardinals. Herb Magee, head coach of the Philadelphia University Men's Basketball team. Silas Weir Mitchell, father of medical neurology. Jay McCarroll, winner of Bravo's inaugural season of Project Runway. David L. Reich ('82), academic anesthesiologist and professor; President & Chief Operating Officer of the Mount Sinai Hospital, and President of Mount Sinai Queens. Charles E. de M. Sajous (1878), pioneer of endocrinology Jacob da Silva Solis-Cohen, performed the first laryngotomy for vocal cord cancer. Greg Wilson, former coach of Rams' men's soccer, and professional player. References[edit] ^ a b c d "Thomas Jefferson University". www.usnews.com. ^ "Thomas Jefferson University - Missing Page". www.philau.edu. ^ "Official Combination of Philadelphia University & Thomas Jefferson University Signals Disruption in a Stagnant Education Industry". ^ a b c d Gayley, James Fyfe (1858). A history of the Jefferson Medical College of Philadelphia. Philadelphia: Joseph M. Wilson. ^ "George McClellan, Founder". A Brief History of Thomas Jefferson University. Thomas Jefferson University. Retrieved April 13, 2010. ^ a b c d e f Pedrick, Alexander K. (1898). "The Jefferson Medical College of Philadelphia". Charitable Institutions of Pennsylvania. 1. State Printer of Pennsylvania. pp. 177–202. ^ a b "Establishing a School". A Brief History of Thomas Jefferson University. Thomas Jefferson University. Retrieved April 13, 2010. ^ a b c d "Early Homes". A Brief History of Thomas Jefferson University. Thomas Jefferson University. Retrieved April 13, 2010. ^ Medical Society of the State of Pennsylvania, ed. (September 1915). "Jefferson Medical College". The Pennsylvania Medical Journal. 18. p. 950. ^ Morton, Samuel George (1849). Biographical Notice of the Late George McClellan, M. D. Philadelphia: College of Physicians of Philadelphia – via Wikisource. ^ Aptowicz, Cristin (September 2014). Dr Mutter's Marvels: A True Tale of Intrigue and Innovation at the Dawn of Modern Medicine. New York: Avery Books. p. 83. ISBN 978-1-592-40925-9. ^ Pilcher, James Evelyn (1905). The Surgeon Generals of the Army of the United States of America. Carlisle, PA: Association of Military Surgeons of the United States. p. 79. ^ a b Rowan, Tommy. "1882: Grave robbers sold black bodies to medical college". www.inquirer.com. Retrieved July 20, 2019. ^ Keels, Thomas H. (2010). Wicked Philadelphia: Sin in the City of Brotherly Love. Charleston, South Carolina: The History Press. ISBN 978-1-59629-787-6. Retrieved July 20, 2019. ^ a b McLeary, Erin. "The Curious Case Of Body Snatching at Lebanon Cemetery". www.hiddencityphila.org. Retrieved July 20, 2019. ^ "Essay::Health Sciences Library". Upstate.edu. Archived from the original on October 6, 2008. Retrieved April 30, 2013. ^ Michael Kimmelman (January 12, 2007). "In the Company of Eakins". The New York Times. ^ "Kimmel donates $110M to Jefferson". philly-archives. ^ Lattanzio, Vince (May 5, 2017). "Philadelphia University Will Be Renamed Thomas Jefferson University When Merger Complete". NBC 10. Retrieved July 19, 2017. ^ "About PU". Retrieved September 1, 2007. ^ "Philadelphia University Research Center". Retrieved September 1, 2007. ^ SLOBODZIAN, JOSEPH. "Healer or monster?". https://www.philly.com. External link in |website= (help) External links[edit] Official website v t e Private colleges and universities in Pennsylvania Liberal arts colleges Albright Allegheny Bryn Mawr Cedar Crest Chatham Dickinson Elizabethtown Franklin & Marshall Geneva Gettysburg Grove City Haverford Juniata King's Lafayette Lebanon Valley Lycoming Marywood Mercyhurst Messiah Moravian Muhlenberg Saint Vincent Susquehanna Swarthmore Ursinus Washington & Jefferson Waynesburg Westminster Wilson York Universities and colleges Alvernia The American College Arcadia Art Institute of Philadelphia Bucknell Bryn Athyn Cabrini Cairn Carlow Carnegie Mellon Chestnut Hill Clarks Summit University Curtis Institute of Music Delaware Valley DeSales Drexel Duquesne Eastern Gannon Gratz Gwynedd Mercy Harcum Harrisburg University of Science and Technology Holy Family Hussian School of Art Immaculata Keystone La Roche La Salle Lackawanna Lancaster Bible Lehigh Manor Marywood Misericordia Moore College of Art and Design Mount Aloysius Neumann Peirce Pennsylvania College of Art and Design Philadelphia Point Park Robert Morris Rosemont St. Charles Borromeo Seminary Saint Francis Saint Joseph's Salus Seton Hill Thiel Thomas Jefferson University of Pennsylvania University of Scranton University of the Arts University of the Sciences in Philadelphia University of Valley Forge Villanova Widener Wilkes v t e Central Atlantic Collegiate Conference Members Bloomfield Bears Caldwell Cougars Chestnut Hill Griffins Concordia Clippers Dominican Chargers Felician Golden Falcons Georgian Court Lions Goldey–Beacom Lightning Holy Family Tigers Jefferson Rams Nyack Warriors Post Eagles Sciences Devils Wilmington Wildcats v t e Colleges and universities in metropolitan Philadelphia Pennsylvania Philadelphia Comprehensive Drexel University Saint Joseph's University Temple University Thomas Jefferson University University of Pennsylvania Liberal arts Chestnut Hill College Holy Family University La Salle University Arts and sciences Curtis Institute of Music Moore College of Art and Design Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine University of the Arts University of the Sciences in Philadelphia Career and vocational Art Institute of Philadelphia Peirce College The Restaurant School Community colleges Community College of Philadelphia Montgomery County Comprehensive Arcadia University Penn State Abington Gwynedd Mercy University Liberal arts Bryn Mawr College Gratz College Manor College Ursinus College Arts and sciences Salus University Career and vocational The American College of Financial Services Seminary Reconstructionist Rabbinical College Westminster Theological Seminary Community colleges Montgomery County Community College Delaware County Cabrini College Cheyney University Delaware County Community College Eastern University Haverford College Neumann University Penn State Brandywine Rosemont College Swarthmore College Villanova University Chester County Immaculata University Lincoln University Penn State Great Valley University of Valley Forge West Chester University Widener University Bucks County Bucks County Community College Cairn University Delaware Valley University New Jersey Camden County College Rowan College at Burlington County Rowan College of South Jersey Rowan University Cooper Medical School Rutgers University Camden Biomedical and Health Sciences Salem Community College Delaware Delaware College of Art and Design Delaware Law School Delaware Technical Community College Goldey–Beacom College Wilmington University University of Delaware v t e Thomas Jefferson 3rd President of the United States (1801–1809) 2nd U.S. Vice President (1797–1801) 1st U.S. Secretary of State (1790–1793) U.S. Minister to France (1785–1789) 2nd Governor of Virginia (1779–1781) Delegate, Second Continental Congress (1775–1776) Founding documents of the United States A Summary View of the Rights of British America (1774) Initial draft, Olive Branch Petition (1775) Declaration of the Causes and Necessity of Taking Up Arms (1775) 1776 Declaration of Independence Committee of Five authored physical history "All men are created equal" "Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness" "Consent of the governed" 1786 Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom freedom of religion French Revolution Co-author, Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen (1789) Presidency Inaugural Address (1801 1805) Act Prohibiting Importation of Slaves Louisiana Purchase Lewis and Clark Expedition Corps of Discovery timeline Empire of Liberty Red River Expedition Pike Expedition Cumberland Road Embargo Act of 1807 Chesapeake–Leopard affair Non-Intercourse Act of 1809 First Barbary War Native American policy Marbury v. Madison West Point Military Academy State of the Union Addresses (texts 1801 1802 1805) Cabinet Federal judicial appointments Other noted accomplishments Early life and career Franco-American alliance Founder, University of Virginia history Ratification Day Land Ordinance of 1784 Northwest Ordinance 1787 Anti-Administration party Democratic-Republican Party Jeffersonian democracy First Party System republicanism Plan for Establishing Uniformity in the Coinage, Weights, and Measure of the United States (1790) Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions A Manual of Parliamentary Practice (1801) American Creed Jefferson disk Swivel chair Jeffersonian architecture Barboursville Farmington Monticello gardens Poplar Forest University of Virginia The Rotunda The Lawn Jefferson Hall Virginia State Capitol White House Colonnades Other writings Notes on the State of Virginia (1785) 1787 European journey memorandums Indian removal letters Jefferson Bible (c. 1819) Jefferson manuscript collection at the Massachusetts Historical Society The Papers of Thomas Jefferson Related Age of Enlightenment American Enlightenment American Philosophical Society American Revolution patriots Claude G. Bowers Member, Virginia Committee of Correspondence Committee of the States Founding Fathers of the United States Jefferson and education Religious views Jefferson and slavery Jefferson and the Library of Congress Jefferson Pier Pet mockingbird National Gazette Residence Act Compromise of 1790 Sally Hemings Jefferson–Hemings controversy Betty Hemings Separation of church and state The American Museum magazine Virginia dynasty Elections United States Presidential election 1796 1800 1804 Legacy and Memorials Bibliography Jefferson Memorial Mount Rushmore Birthday Thomas Jefferson Building Thomas Jefferson Center for the Protection of Free Expression Jefferson Lecture Jefferson National Expansion Memorial Thomas Jefferson Star for Foreign Service Karl Bitter statues University of Virginia statue Jefferson Literary and Debating Society Thomas Jefferson Foundation Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Facility Monticello Association Jefferson City, Missouri Jefferson College Thomas Jefferson School of Law Thomas Jefferson University Washington and Jefferson National Forests Peaks and mountains Other placenames Jefferson–Jackson Day Currency depictions Jefferson nickel Two-dollar bill Louisiana Purchase Exposition dollar 250th Anniversary silver dollar U.S. postage stamps Popular culture Ben and Me (1953 short) 1776 (1969 musical 1972 film) Jefferson in Paris (1995 film) Thomas Jefferson (1997 film) Liberty! (1997 documentary series) Liberty's Kids (2002 animated series) John Adams (2008 miniseries) Jefferson's Garden (2015 play) Hamilton (2015 musical) Washington (2020 miniseries) Wine bottles controversy Family Martha Jefferson (wife) Martha Jefferson Randolph (daughter) Mary Jefferson Eppes (daughter) Harriet Hemings (daughter) Madison Hemings (son) Eston Hemings (son) Thomas J. Randolph (grandson) Francis Eppes (grandson) George W. Randolph (grandson) John Wayles Jefferson (grandson) Peter Jefferson (father) Jane Randolph Jefferson (mother) Lucy Jefferson Lewis (sister) Randolph Jefferson (brother) Isham Randolph (grandfather) William Randolph (great-grandfather) ? John Adams James Madison ? Category Coordinates: 40°01?23?N 75°11?31?W? / ?40.023°N 75.192°W? / 40.023; -75.192 Authority control GND: 5027626-8 ISNI: 0000 0001 2166 5843 LCCN: n80120856 NKC: ko2006359162 ULAN: 500311160 VIAF: 137693024 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n80120856 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Thomas_Jefferson_University&oldid=945763974" Categories: Thomas Jefferson University Universities and colleges in Philadelphia Educational institutions established in 1884 Architecture schools in Pennsylvania Educational institutions established in 1999 1884 establishments in Pennsylvania East Falls, Philadelphia Hidden categories: CS1 errors: external links Use mdy dates from May 2016 Pages using infobox university with the affiliations parameter All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from May 2016 Coordinates on Wikidata Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with NKC identifiers Wikipedia articles with ULAN identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Deutsch Esperanto ????? Français Italiano ??? Polski ??????? Edit links This page was last edited on 16 March 2020, at 00:07 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
