United States Congressional staff edits to Wikipedia - Wikipedia United States Congressional staff edits to Wikipedia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Wikinews has news coverage related to this page: Congressional staff actions prompt Wikipedia investigation United States Department of Justice workers among government Wikipedia vandals Some edits to the online encyclopedia Wikipedia by staff of the United States Congress have created controversy, notably in early to mid-2006. Several such instances, such as those involving Marty Meehan, Norm Coleman, Conrad Burns,[1] and Joe Biden, received significant media attention.[2] Others, such as those involving Gil Gutknecht, were reported but received less widespread coverage. Biographical information on various politicians was edited by their own staff to remove undesirable information (including pejorative statements quoted, or broken campaign promises), add favorable information or "glowing" tributes, add negative information to opponents' biographies, or replace the article in part or whole by staff-authored biographies.[2] Contents 1 Background 2 Incidents 2.1 Norm Coleman 2.2 Joe Biden 2.3 Gil Gutknecht 2.4 U.S. Rep. David Davis and Tennessee Rep. Matthew Hill 2.5 U.S. Rep Mike Pence 2.6 Edward Snowden 2.7 Laverne Cox 2.8 Senate Intelligence Committee report on CIA torture 2.9 Kavanaugh hearings 3 Congressional edits 4 Proponents 5 See also 6 References 7 External links Background[edit] On January 27, 2006, The Sun of Lowell, Massachusetts, published an article entitled "Rewriting history under the dome", which revealed the editing by Congressional staff members of Representative Marty Meehan's Wikipedia entry.[2][3] Matt Vogel, Meehan's chief of staff, said that he had authorized an intern in July to replace existing Wikipedia content with a staff-written biography of the lawmaker. Further investigation by Wikipedia editors discovered over a thousand edits by IP addresses allocated to either the House of Representatives or the Senate. Wikipedia editors found that most of the edits were considered to be in good faith, but a minority of edits were considered improper. At least one of the addresses involved was prohibited from further editing.[4] Yesterday's story, "Rewriting history under the dome," accurately reported that in July of 2005 an intern in my office responsible for updating my biography also updated my online Wikipedia entry. I did not know that this change was being made at the time and was only made aware of it yesterday when informed that The Sun had inquired about it. Though the actual time spent on this issue amounted to 11 minutes, according to server logs, I do not consider it time well spent or approve of it in any way. ... It was a waste of energy and an error in judgment on the part of my staff to have allowed any time to be spent on updating my Wikipedia entry. I thank The Sun for bringing it to my attention.[3] —?Congressman Marty Meehan, Lowell Sun Incidents[edit] Norm Coleman[edit] Later in January 2006, Senator Norm Coleman's chief of staff, Erich Mische, verified that Coleman's staffers had edited his page "to correct inaccuracies and delete information."[5] Mische stated: "What's to stop someone from writing in that Norm Coleman was 7 feet 10 inches, with green hair and one eye smack dab in the middle of his head? That's about as silly as this gets [...] When you put 'edia' in there, it makes it sound as if this is a benign, objective piece of information."[5] Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales said, "It appears to be a major rewrite of the article to make it more favorable."[5] Joe Biden[edit] The Wikipedia investigation found that Biden staffers had removed and modified descriptions of incidents of alleged plagiarism and had recast discussion of a possible Biden 2008 presidential candidacy in a more favorable light.[6][7] In February 2006, The Washington Post quoted Biden spokesperson Norm Kurz as saying that the changes that were "made to Biden's site by this office were designed to make it more fair and accurate."[7] Gil Gutknecht[edit] On August 16, 2006, the Minneapolis-St. Paul Star Tribune reported that the office of Representative Gil Gutknecht tried twice—on July 24 and August 14, 2006—to remove a 128-word section in the Wikipedia article on him, replacing it with a more flattering 315-word entry from his official congressional biography.[3][8] Gutknecht's office used the account "Gutknecht01" for the first edits on July 24,[9] which was then notified of Wikipedia policies against self-editing. For the second set of edits on August 16, his office used an anonymous Congressional IP address.[10] Most of the removed text was about the 12-year term limit Gutknecht imposed on himself in 1995, as Gutknecht had run for re-election in 2006. He broke his promise and was subsequently defeated, though not specifically as a result of this pledge. A spokesman for Gutknecht did not dispute that his office tried to change his Wikipedia entry, but questioned the reliability of the encyclopedia.[3][8] U.S. Rep. David Davis and Tennessee Rep. Matthew Hill[edit] In August 2007, U.S. Rep. David Davis's press secretary Timothy Hill at first denied—and later acknowledged, during a second press interview with the Knoxville News Sentinel—that he had used a congressional office computer and resources to edit Wikipedia in June 2007. His edits were to delete blocks of information (termed as "blanking vandalism") about his employer and his brother Tennessee Representative Matthew Hill from their respective Wikipedia biographies.[11] The information that was deleted "concerned political contributions to both his brother and Davis by former King Pharmaceuticals CEO John Gregory, as well as other ties to the Gregory family."[12] U.S. Rep Mike Pence[edit] In August 2011, The Huffington Post reported that the office of then-Indiana representative Mike Pence appeared to have edited Pence's Wikipedia page to make the representative look more flattering.[13] Edward Snowden[edit] On August 2, 2013, an editor using an IP address linked to the U.S. Senate edited the Wikipedia page of whistleblower Edward Snowden to change his description from "dissident" to "traitor".[14] On August 5, 2014, an editor using an IP address linked to the U.S. House of Representatives edited the Wikipedia page of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Navi Pillay, to describe Edward Snowden as an "American traitor."[15] Laverne Cox[edit] On August 21, 2014, an editor using an IP address linked to the U.S. House of Representatives edited the page on the Netflix original series Orange Is the New Black to describe actress Laverne Cox as a "real man pretending to be a woman."[16] Senate Intelligence Committee report on CIA torture[edit] On December 9 and 10, 2014, an anonymous user using an IP address registered to the U.S. Senate edited the article on the Senate Intelligence Committee report on CIA torture, removing a sentence characterizing the CIA's "enhanced interrogation techniques" as "torture."[17] Kavanaugh hearings[edit] In September 2018, an anonymous editor from Congress posted the personal information of several Republican senators into their articles,[18] leading to CongressEdits, a bot which posts edits to Wikipedia from IP addresses located in Congressional offices, being banned from Twitter. On September 27, the disambiguation page for "Devil's Triangle" was edited from a House of Representatives IP address to describe it as a drinking game, matching the testimony of Kavanaugh.[19][20] Congressional edits[edit] Main pages: Wikipedia:Congressional staffer edits and CongressEdits The Wikimedia system has responded in at least three ways to questionable edits. The most obvious response is case-by-case, based on the "watch" button at the top of each article: A user who sets that switch can get emails when that article is changed. Another is an occasional (usually temporary) block. At least some of these are documented in Wikipedia:Congressional staffer edits. For edits from IP addresses associated with the U.S. Congress, Ed Summers also created a Twitter feed to notify the world of any changes made from those addresses: @congressedits was an automated Twitter account from 2014 to 2018 that tweeted anonymous changes to Wikipedia articles that originated from IP addresses belonging to the United States Congress. The changes were presumed to have been made by the staffs of US elected representatives and senators. Prior to the Twitter feed, the best information about what congressional staffers were editing was found in the present article on U.S. Congressional staff edits to Wikipedia and in the Wikipedia project page for congressional staffer edits, both of which are manually updated. Proponents[edit] In August 2014, the Cato Institute suggested that Congressional staffers should spend spare time editing Wikipedia. A panel hosted by the institute endorsed the idea so that congressional staffers could use their time to write neutral and informative articles about proposed legislation to better educate the public. Experts on the panel considered the two main obstacles to doing this as being skepticism towards Wikipedia and the history of biased editing from Congressional staffers. The Cato Institute suggested one way to overcome these issues would be for the staffers to create user accounts and user profile pages disclosing their connections with Congress.[21] See also[edit] CongressEdits References[edit] ^ Williams, Walt (January 1, 2007). "Burns' office may have tampered with Wikipedia entry". Bozeman Daily Chronicle. Retrieved February 13, 2007. ^ a b c Nate Anderson (January 30, 2006). "Congressional staffers edit boss's bio on Wikipedia". Ars Technica. Retrieved April 28, 2008. The activities documented included: rewriting Norm Coleman's article to make more favorable, said to be "correcting errors"; removing from Conrad Burns' article quoted pejorative statements he had made, and replacing them with "glowing tributes" such as "the voice of the farmer"; and removal of unfavorable information from Joe Biden's article. ^ a b c d Evan Lehmann (January 27, 2006). "Rewriting history under the dome". The Lowell Sun. MediaNews Group. ^ Wikipedia editors made a fairly extensive survey of edits from Congressional IP ranges: "Wikipedia:Congressional Staffer Edits". Wikipedia. Retrieved June 22, 2006. ^ a b c "Web site's entry on Coleman revised Aide confirms his staff edited biography, questions Wikipedia's accuracy". St. Paul Pioneer Press (Associated Press). Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved June 22, 2006. [failed verification] ^ Blakely, Rhys (February 9, 2006). "Washington's politicians edit Wikipedia". The Times. London. ^ a b Noguchi, Yuki (February 9, 2006). "Wikipedia's Help From the Hill". The Washington Post. ^ a b Diaz, Kevin (August 16, 2006). "Gutknecht joins Wikipedia tweakers". Star Tribune. Archived from the original on August 21, 2006. ^ "Gil Gutknecht". Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. ^ Gutknecht01 ^ Knoxnews article Entries on Wikipedia edited by Davis aide published August 11, 2007. ^ knoxnews article Lawmaker's office awaits panel's verdict on aide's act published August 15, 2007. ^ Carter, Zach (August 18, 2011). "Did Mike Pence's Office Edit His Wikipedia Page To Make It More Flattering?". Huffington Post. ^ Ryan Gorman (August 3, 2013). "Someone within the US Senate edited Edward Snowden's Wikipedia page to change his description from 'dissident' to 'traitor'". Daily Mail. Retrieved October 5, 2013. ^ Julian Hattem (August 5, 2014). "House staffer edited Wikipedia page to label Snowden a 'traitor'". The Hill. Retrieved August 6, 2014. ^ Meija, Paula (August 23, 2014). "Anonymous House of Representatives User Banned for Transphobic Wikipedia Edits". Newsweek. Retrieved August 31, 2014. ^ Bobic, Igor (December 12, 2014). "Senate Staffer Tried To Scrub 'Torture' From Torture Report's Wikipedia Entry". The Huffington Post. Retrieved December 14, 2014. ^ Papenfuss, Mary. "Judiciary Committee Members Doxxed During Kavanaugh Testimony". The Huffington Post. Oath. Retrieved October 2, 2018. ^ Wolf, Zach Byron (September 27, 2018). "Wikipedia entry for 'Devil's Triangle' changed to match Kavanaugh's answer". CNN. Perhaps sensing that it needed an online presence, someone on Capitol Hill, operating from a congressional IP address, decided to update Wikipedia to include an entry for "* "Devil's Triangle", a popular drinking game enjoyed by friends of Judge Brett Kavanaugh." ^ @congressedits (September 27, 2018). "Devil's Triangle (disambiguation) Wikipedia article edited anonymously from US House of Representatives en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?diff=861497321&oldid=839322382 …" (Tweet). Archived from the original on September 27, 2018 – via Twitter. ^ Schwab, Nikki (August 18, 2014). "Cato Institute Experts Call on Staffers to Edit Wikipedia". US News & World Report. Retrieved August 18, 2014. External links[edit] David Mehegan Bias, sabotage haunt Wikipedia's free world The Boston Globe, February 12, 2006 v t e Conflict-of-interest editing on Wikipedia Incidents Commercial Indian Institute of Planning and Management / Wifione MyWikiBiz Operation Orangemoody Portland Communications Sony Pictures Sunshine Sachs WikiExperts Wiki-PR Political Bell Pottinger Committee for Accuracy in Middle East Reporting in America U.S. Congressional staff Other Church of Scientology Saskatoon Police Service Reporting tools CongressEdits WikiScanner Related Corporate Representatives for Ethical Wikipedia Engagement Linkspam Reputation management Search engine optimization Paid editing reports at The Signpost v t e Wikipedia Overview (Outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing Criticism gender bias ideological bias racial bias Deletionism and inclusionism MediaWiki Notability Reliability Vandalism Predictions of the project's end Community Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Citation needed Edit-a-thon "Ignore all rules" policy List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikipedian in residence WikiConference North America Wikimania WikiProject Women in Red People Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Erik Möller Ira Brad Matetsky Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales Wikipedians Wikimedian of the Year History Bomis Logo Controversies U.S. Congressional staff edits Essjay controversy Seigenthaler biography incident Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Italian Wikipedia blackout English Wikipedia blackout Hillsborough Wikipedia posts MyWikiBiz Lsjbot VisualEditor Art+Feminism #1Lib1Ref Honors 2008 Quadriga award Wikipedia Monument 2015 Erasmus Prize 2015 Princess of Asturias Award References and analysis Cultural Bibliography Films Academic studies Listen to Wikipedia Wiki-Watch Wikipediocracy WikiScanner Wikipedia Review Mobile access Apps QRpedia Wapedia WikiNodes Wikipedia Zero Wikiwand Content use Books LLC Boundless (company) DBpedia Deletionpedia Kiwix WikiReader Science information Health information Similar projects Interpedia Nupedia Citizendium Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Everipedia Veropedia List of online encyclopedias List of wikis Related Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs Print Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) 274301 Wikipedia Viola wikipedia List Category United States portal Politics portal Wikipedia portal Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=United_States_Congressional_staff_edits_to_Wikipedia&oldid=947554443" Categories: 2000s controversies in the United States 2010s controversies in the United States 2000s in politics 2010s in politics Conflict-of-interest editing on Wikipedia Congressional controversies in the United States Employees of the United States Congress History of Wikipedia Wikipedia controversies Hidden categories: All articles with failed verification Articles with failed verification from July 2018 Use mdy dates from September 2016 Articles containing Spanish-language text Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 27 March 2020, at 00:48 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
