Varnish (software) - Wikipedia Varnish (software) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article may contain excessive or inappropriate references to self-published sources. Please help improve it by removing references to unreliable sources where they are used inappropriately. (June 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Varnish Developer(s) Poul-Henning Kamp, Redpill-Linpro, Varnish Software Stable release 6.3.0 / September 17, 2019; 6 months ago (2019-09-17)[1] Repository github.com/varnishcache/varnish-cache Written in C Operating system BSD, Linux, Unix Type HTTP accelerator License two-clause BSD license Website varnish-cache.org Varnish is an HTTP accelerator designed for content-heavy dynamic web sites as well as APIs. In contrast to other web accelerators, such as Squid, which began life as a client-side cache, or Apache and nginx, which are primarily origin servers, Varnish was designed as an HTTP accelerator. Varnish is focused exclusively on HTTP, unlike other proxy servers that often support FTP, SMTP and other network protocols. Varnish is used by websites including Wikipedia, online newspaper sites such as The New York Times, The Guardian, Gulf News, The Hindu, Corriere della Sera, social media and content sites such as Facebook, Twitter, Reddit, Spotify, Vimeo, and Tumblr. In 2012, 5% of the top 10,000 sites in the web used the software.[2] Contents 1 History 2 Architecture 3 Performance 3.1 Performance metrics 3.2 Metric collection 3.2.1 varnishstat 3.2.2 varnishlog 4 Load balancing 5 Other features 6 See also 7 References 8 External links History[edit] The project was initiated by the online branch of the Norwegian tabloid newspaper Verdens Gang. The architect and lead developer is Danish independent consultant Poul-Henning Kamp (a well-known FreeBSD developer), with management, infrastructure and additional development originally provided by the Norwegian Linux consulting company Linpro. The support, management and development of Varnish was later spun off into a separate company, Varnish Software. Varnish is free and open source software, available under a two-clause BSD license. Commercial support is available from Varnish Software, amongst others. Version 1.0 of Varnish was released in 2006,[3][4] Varnish 2.0 in 2008,[5] Varnish 3.0 in 2011,[6] Varnish 4.0 in 2014,[7] Varnish 5.0 in 2016,[8] and Varnish 6.0 in March 2018.[9] Architecture[edit] Varnish stores data in virtual memory and leaves the task of deciding what is stored in memory and what gets paged out to disk to the operating system. This helps avoid the situation where the operating system starts caching data while it is moved to disk by the application. Varnish is heavily threaded, with each client connection being handled by a separate worker thread. When the configured limit on the number of active worker threads is reached, incoming connections are placed in an overflow queue; when this queue reaches its configured limit incoming connections will be rejected. The principal configuration mechanism is Varnish Configuration Language (VCL), a domain-specific language (DSL) used to write hooks that are called at critical points in the handling of each request. Most policy decisions are left to VCL code, making Varnish more configurable and adaptable than most other HTTP accelerators.[citation needed] When a VCL script is loaded, it is translated to C, compiled to a shared object by the system compiler, and loaded directly into the accelerator which can thus be reconfigured without a restart. A number of run-time parameters control things such as the maximum and the minimum number of worker threads, various timeouts, etc. A command-line management interface allows these parameters to be modified, and new VCL scripts to be compiled, loaded and activated, without restarting the accelerator. In order to reduce the number of system calls in the fast path to a minimum, log data is stored in shared memory, and the task of monitoring, filtering, formatting and writing log data to disk is delegated to a separate application. Performance[edit] While Varnish is designed to reduce contention between threads to a minimum, its authors claim[citation needed] that its performance will only be as good as that of the system's pthreads implementation. Additionally, a slow malloc implementation (like the ones in Microsoft Windows's msvcrt[10][11]) may add unnecessary contention and thereby limit performance, hence the general recommendation of running Varnish on Linux or Unix based environments. Performance metrics[edit] Varnish Cache can speed up information delivery by a factor of several hundred. To ensure proper operation and performance, Varnish exposes metrics that can be monitored in the following areas:[12] Client metrics: client connections and requests Cache performance: cache hits, evictions Thread metrics: thread creation, failures, queues Backend metrics: success, failure, and health of backend connections Metric collection[edit] Varnish Cache ships with monitoring and logging tools. One of the most used is varnishstat which gives a detailed snapshot of Varnish’s current performance. It provides access to in-memory statistics such as cache hits and misses, resource consumption, threads created, and more.[13] varnishstat[edit] Running varnishstat from the command line returns a continuously updating list of all available Varnish metrics. If the -1 flag is added, varnishstat will exit after printing the list one time.[14] Varnishstat can be used as a standalone tool to spot-check the health of the cache. In order to graph metrics over time, correlate with other statistics from across an infrastructure, and set up alerts about any problems that may arise, monitoring services can integrate with Varnish and collect varnishstat metrics. varnishlog[edit] varnishlog is a tool that can be used to debug or tune Varnish's configuration, as it provides detailed information about each individual request. Load balancing[edit] Varnish supports load balancing using both a round robin and a random director, both with a per-backend weighting. Basic health-checking of backends is also available.[15] Other features[edit] Varnish Cache also features: Plugin support with Varnish Modules, also called VMODs[16] Support for Edge Side Includes including stitching together compressed ESI fragments Gzip Compression and Decompression DNS, Random, Hashing and Client IP-based Directors HTTP Streaming Pass & Fetch Experimental support for Persistent Storage, without LRU eviction Saint[17] and Grace[18] modes. If a server malfunctions and returns 500 errors, Grace mode will ignore expiry headers and continue to return cached versions. Saint mode is for use when load balancing, where a failing server is blacklisted for a quarantine period and excluded from the server pool. See also[edit] Free and open-source software portal Web accelerator which discusses host-based HTTP acceleration Proxy server which discusses client-side proxies Reverse proxy which discusses origin-side proxies Comparison of web servers Internet Cache Protocol References[edit] ^ "Varnish Cache 6.3.0 is released". 17 September 2019. ^ "How popular is Varnish". ^ "Making Catalyst Sites Shine with Varnish", Dec. 14, 2008 ^ "Varnish 1.0 released", Sep. 20, 2006 ^ "Varnish 2.0 released", Oct. 15 2008 ^ "Varnish 3.0.0 released", Jun. 16 2011 ^ "Varnish 4.0.0 released", Apr. 10 2014 ^ "Varnish Cache 5.0", Sep. 15, 2016 ^ Poul-Henning Kamp (15 March 2018). "Varnish 6.0 Released". Retrieved 15 May 2018. ^ "Re: Why is Windows 100 times slower than Linux when growing a large scalar?". ^ http://locklessinc.com/benchmarks_allocator.shtml ^ "Top Varnish performance metrics". ^ "How to collect Varnish metrics". ^ "varnishstat - Linux man page". ^ "BackendPolling – Varnish". Varnish-cache.org. Retrieved 2014-07-18. ^ "VMODs Directory (Varnish Modules and Extensions) | Varnish Community". Varnish-cache.org. Retrieved 2014-07-18. ^ "Saint Mode". Varnish. ^ "Grace Mode". Varnish. External links[edit] Official website Official commercial web site Notes from the Architect "You're Doing It Wrong", June 11, 2010 ACM Queue article by Varnish developer Poul-Henning Kamp describing the implementation of the LRU list. Varnish in Layman's Terms Varnish Cache How-To Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Varnish_(software)&oldid=946977266" Categories: Reverse proxy Free proxy servers Proxy server software for Linux Unix network-related software Free software programmed in C Free web server software Cross-platform software Forward proxy Software using the BSD license Hidden categories: Articles with self-published sources from June 2014 All articles with self-published sources All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from May 2018 Articles with unsourced statements from August 2012 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Deutsch Español ????? Français ??? Magyar Nederlands ??? Svenska ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 23 March 2020, at 15:02 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Emil@Nathan.gov.ca
