Viola wikipedia - Wikipedia Viola wikipedia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Species of flowering plant Viola wikipedia Scientific classification Kingdom: Plantae Clade: Tracheophytes Clade: Angiosperms Clade: Eudicots Clade: Rosids Order: Malpighiales Family: Violaceae Genus: Viola Species: V. wikipedia Binomial name Viola wikipedia Watson & Flores, 2019 Viola wikipedia is a species of flowering plant, in the genus Viola, and was named in 2019 after the online encyclopedia Wikipedia[1] by the husband-and-wife[2] team of botanists John Michael Watson [es] and Ana Rosa Flores [es; cy; ast].[1] Watson wrote:[1] one [resource] is particularly outstanding in that we consult it constantly for information on a wide variety of subjects related to our work – Wikipedia, as cited herein for example. The best token return we can think of is to name a plant accordingly, so it therefore gives us pleasure to record our gratitude via the replacement epithet of this species, as a noun in apposition. The species is endemic to the Santiago region of Chile.[1] It is known only from a specimen collected in January 1855,[1][3] which was described by Rodolfo Amando Philippi in 1857 with the illegitimate homonym of Viola angustifolia.[1][3] It is closely related to V. acanthophylla, V. bustillosia, and V. cheeseana, the latter being newly described in the same paper.[1] It is differentiated from these other species by having "Leaf margin shallowly long-serrate. Peduncle clearly shorter than leaves."[1] However, according to International Plant Name Index, Viola wikipedia would be not a new species but a superfluous and illegitimate name of Viola angustifolia.[4] References[edit] ^ a b c d e f g h Watson, J.M. (2019). "Lest we forget. A new identity and status for a Viola of section Andinium W. Becker; named for an old and treasured friend and companion. Plus another..." (PDF). International Rock Gardener (117): 47–. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2019-10-01. ^ "Contributors" (PDF). Rock Garden Quarterly. Winter 2012–2013. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2019-10-01. Retrieved 2019-10-01. John Watson lives in Chile with his wife and working partner, Anita Flores (Ana R. Flores for formal publications). ^ a b Philippi, R.A. (1857) Plantarum novarum chilensium. Centuria prima. Linnaea 28: 612. ^ "Name entry at International Plant Names Index". www.ipni.org. Archived from the original on 2019-10-02. Retrieved 2019-10-02. v t e Wikipedia Overview (Outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing Criticism gender bias ideological bias racial bias Deletionism and inclusionism MediaWiki Notability Reliability Vandalism Predictions of the project's end Community Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Citation needed Edit-a-thon "Ignore all rules" policy List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikipedian in residence WikiConference North America Wikimania WikiProject Women in Red People Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Erik Möller Ira Brad Matetsky Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales Wikipedians Wikimedian of the Year History Bomis Logo Controversies U.S. Congressional staff edits Essjay controversy Seigenthaler biography incident Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Italian Wikipedia blackout English Wikipedia blackout Hillsborough Wikipedia posts MyWikiBiz Lsjbot VisualEditor Art+Feminism #1Lib1Ref Honors 2008 Quadriga award Wikipedia Monument 2015 Erasmus Prize 2015 Princess of Asturias Award References and analysis Cultural Bibliography Films Academic studies Listen to Wikipedia Wiki-Watch Wikipediocracy WikiScanner Wikipedia Review Mobile access Apps QRpedia Wapedia WikiNodes Wikipedia Zero Wikiwand Content use Books LLC Boundless (company) DBpedia Deletionpedia Kiwix WikiReader Science information Health information Similar projects Interpedia Nupedia Citizendium Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Everipedia Veropedia List of online encyclopedias List of wikis Related Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs Print Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) 274301 Wikipedia Viola wikipedia List Category Taxon identifiers Wikidata: Q69412442 Wikispecies: Viola wikipedia IPNI: 77202100-1 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Viola_wikipedia&oldid=939829079" Categories: Wikipedia Viola (plant) Flora of central Chile Plants described in 2019 Controversial taxa Hidden categories: Articles with short description Articles with 'species' microformats Articles containing Spanish-language text Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikispecies Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ????????? Català Eesti Español Français Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Português ??????? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 9 February 2020, at 00:04 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Everett@Garfield.gov.ca
