West Germanic languages - Wikipedia West Germanic languages From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   (Redirected from West Germanic language) Jump to navigation Jump to search This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (October 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) West Germanic Geographic distribution Originally between the Rhine, Alps, Elbe, and North Sea; today worldwide Linguistic classification Indo-European Germanic West Germanic Subdivisions North Sea Germanic – English, Scots, Frisian, Low German Weser-Rhine Germanic – German (Franconian), Dutch, Afrikaans Elbe Germanic – German (Alemannic, Bavarian), Luxembourgish, Hunsrik, Yiddish ISO 639-5 gmw Linguasphere 52-AB & 52-AC Glottolog west2793[1] The West Germanic languages constitute the largest of the three branches of the Germanic family of languages (the others being the North Germanic and the extinct East Germanic languages). The three most prevalent West Germanic languages are English, German, and Dutch. The family also includes other High and Low German languages including Afrikaans and Yiddish (which are daughter languages of Dutch and German, respectively), in addition to other Franconian languages, like Luxembourgish, and Ingvaeonic (North Sea Germanic) languages next to English, such as the Frisian languages and Scots. Additionally, several creoles, patois, and pidgins are based on Dutch, English and German as they were languages of colonial empires. Contents 1 History 1.1 Origins 1.2 Existence of a West Germanic proto-language 1.3 The reconstruction of Proto-West-Germanic 1.4 Dating Early West Germanic 1.5 Middle Ages 2 Family tree 3 Comparison of phonological and morphological features 4 Phonology 5 Morphology 5.1 Nouns 6 West Germanic vocabulary 7 Notes 8 References 9 Bibliography 10 External links History[edit] The Germanic languages in Europe: North Germanic languages   Icelandic   Faroese   Norwegian   Swedish   Danish West Germanic languages   Scots   English   Frisian   Dutch   Low German   German Dots indicate areas where multilingualism is common. Origins[edit] The West Germanic languages share many lexemes not existing in North Germanic or East Germanic—archaisms as well as common neologisms. Existence of a West Germanic proto-language[edit] Most scholars doubt that there was a Proto-West-Germanic proto-language common to the West Germanic languages and no others, though a few maintain that Proto-West-Germanic existed.[2] Most agree that after East Germanic broke off (an event usually dated to the 2nd or 1st century BC), the remaining Germanic languages, the Northwest Germanic languages, divided into four main dialects:[3] North Germanic, and the three groups conventionally called "West Germanic", namely North Sea Germanic, ancestral to Anglo-Frisian and Old Saxon Weser-Rhine Germanic, ancestral to Low Franconian and the Central German dialects of Old High German Elbe Germanic, ancestral to the Upper German dialects of Old High German and the extinct Langobardic language. Although there is quite a bit of knowledge about North Sea Germanic or Anglo-Frisian (due to characteristic features of its daughter languages, Anglo-Saxon/Old English and Old Frisian), linguists know almost nothing about "Weser-Rhine Germanic" and "Elbe Germanic". In fact, these two terms were coined in the 1940s to refer to groups of archaeological findings rather than linguistic features. Only later were these terms applied to hypothetical dialectal differences within both regions. Even today, the very small number of Migration Period runic inscriptions from this area—many of them illegible, unclear or consisting only of one word, often a name—is insufficient to identify linguistic features specific to the two supposed dialect groups. Evidence that East Germanic split off before the split between North and West Germanic comes from a number of linguistic innovations common to North and West Germanic,[4] including: The lowering of Proto-Germanic ? (/??/, also written ?) to ?.[5] The development of umlaut. The rhotacism of /z/ to /r/. The development of the demonstrative pronoun ancestral to English this. Under this view, the properties that the West Germanic languages have in common separate from the North Germanic languages are not necessarily inherited from a "Proto-West-Germanic" language, but may have spread by language contact among the Germanic languages spoken in central Europe, not reaching those spoken in Scandinavia or reaching them much later. Rhotacism, for example, was largely complete in West Germanic at a time when North Germanic runic inscriptions still clearly distinguished the two phonemes. There is also evidence that the lowering of ? to ? occurred first in West Germanic and spread to North Germanic later, since word-final ? was lowered before it was shortened in West Germanic, whereas in North Germanic the shortening occurred first, resulting in e that later merged with i. However, there are also a number of common archaisms in West Germanic shared by neither Old Norse nor Gothic. Some authors who support the concept of a West Germanic proto-language claim that not only shared innovations can require the existence of a linguistic clade but that there can be also archaisms that cannot be explained simply as retentions later lost in the North or East because this assumption can produce contradictions with attested features of these other branches. The debate on the existence of a Proto-West-Germanic clade was recently summarized: That North Germanic is .. a unitary subgroup [of Proto-Germanic] is completely obvious, as all of its dialects shared a long series of innovations, some of them very striking. That the same is true of West Germanic has been denied, but I will argue in vol. ii that all the West Germanic languages share several highly unusual innovations that virtually force us to posit a West Germanic clade. On the other hand, the internal subgrouping of both North Germanic and West Germanic is very messy, and it seems clear that each of those subfamilies diversified into a network of dialects that remained in contact for a considerable period of time (in some cases right up to the present).[6] The reconstruction of Proto-West-Germanic[edit] Several scholars have published reconstructions of Proto-West-Germanic morphological paradigms[7] and many authors have reconstructed individual Proto-West-Germanic morphological forms or lexemes. The first comprehensive reconstruction of the Proto-West-Germanic language was published in 2013 by Wolfram Euler.[8] Dating Early West Germanic[edit] If indeed Proto-West-Germanic existed, it must have been between the 2nd and 4th centuries. Until the late 2nd century AD, the language of runic inscriptions found in Scandinavia and in Northern Germany were so similar that Proto-North-Germanic and the Western dialects in the south were still part of one language ("Proto-Northwest-Germanic"). After that, the split into West and North Germanic occurred. By the 4th and 5th centuries the great migration set in which probably helped diversify the West Germanic family even more. It has been argued that, judging by their nearly identical syntax, the West Germanic dialects were closely enough related to have been mutually intelligible up to the 7th century.[9] Over the course of this period, the dialects diverged successively. The High German consonant shift that occurred mostly during the 7th century AD in what is now southern Germany, Austria, and Switzerland can be considered the end of the linguistic unity among the West Germanic dialects, although its effects on their own should not be overestimated. Bordering dialects very probably continued to be mutually intelligible even beyond the boundaries of the consonant shift. In fact, many dialects of Limburgish and Ripuarian are still mutually intelligible today. Middle Ages[edit] During the Early Middle Ages, the West Germanic languages were separated by the insular development of Old and Middle English on one hand, and by the High German consonant shift on the continent on the other. The High German consonant shift distinguished the High German languages from the other West Germanic languages. By early modern times, the span had extended into considerable differences, ranging from Highest Alemannic in the South (the Walliser dialect being the southernmost surviving German dialect) to Northern Low Saxon in the North. Although both extremes are considered German, they are not mutually intelligible. The southernmost varieties have completed the second sound shift, whereas the northern dialects remained unaffected by the consonant shift. Of modern German varieties, Low German is the one that most resembles modern English. The district of Angeln (or Anglia), from which the name English derives, is in the extreme northern part of Germany between the Danish border and the Baltic coast. The area of the Saxons (parts of today's Schleswig-Holstein and Lower Saxony) lay south of Anglia. The Angles and Saxons, two Germanic tribes, in combination with a number of other peoples from northern Germany and the Jutland Peninsula, particularly the Jutes, settled in Britain following the end of Roman rule in the island. Once in Britain, these Germanic peoples eventually developed a shared cultural and linguistic identity as Anglo-Saxons; the extent of the linguistic influence of the native Romano-British population on the incomers is debatable. Family tree[edit] Grouping of the main Germanic languages, including historical dialects, according to Friedrich Maurer. Note that divisions between subfamilies of continental Germanic languages are rarely precisely defined; most form dialect continua, with adjacent dialects being mutually intelligible and more separated ones not. North Sea Germanic / Ingvaeonic languages Anglo-Frisian languages English Languages/Anglic English Scots Yola (extinct) Fingalian (extinct) Frisian languages West Frisian East Frisian North Frisian Low German / Low Saxon Northern Low Saxon Schleswig dialects Holstein dialects Westphalian Eastphalia dialects Brandenburg dialects ("Märkisch") Pommeranian (moribund) Low Prussian (moribund) Dutch Low Saxon Weser-Rhine Germanic / Istvaeonic languages Dutch West Flemish East Flemish Zeelandic Hollandic Brabantine East Dutch (Zuid-Gelders/Clevian) Afrikaans Limburgian Elbe Germanic / Irminonic languages / High German German Alemannic, including Swiss German and Alsatian Swabian Austro-Bavarian East Franconian South Franconian Rhine Franconian, including the dialects of Hessen, Pennsylvania German, and most of those from Lorraine Ripuarian Thuringian Upper Saxon German Silesian (moribund) Lombardic aka Langobardic (extinct, unless Cimbrian and Mocheno are in fact Langobardic remnants.) High Prussian (moribund) Luxembourgish Pennsylvania German language Yiddish (a language based on Eastern-Central dialects of late Middle High German/Early New High German) Comparison of phonological and morphological features[edit] This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "West Germanic languages" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (July 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) The following table shows a list of various linguistic features and their extent among the West Germanic languages. Some may only appear in the older languages but are no longer apparent in the modern languages. Old English Old Frisian Old Saxon Old Dutch Old Central German Old Upper German Palatalisation of velars Yes Yes No No No No Unrounding of front rounded vowels Yes Yes No No No No Loss of intervocalic *-h- Yes Yes Developing Yes Developing No Class II weak verb ending *-(?)ja- Yes Yes Sometimes No No No Merging of plural forms of verbs Yes Yes Yes No No No Ingvaeonic nasal spirant law Yes Yes Yes Rare No No Loss of the reflexive pronoun Yes Yes Most dialects Most dialects No No Loss of final *-z in single-syllable words Yes Yes Yes Yes No No Reduction of weak class III to four relics Yes Yes Yes Yes No No Monophthongization of *ai, *au Yes Yes Yes Usually Partial Partial Diphthongization of *?, *? No No Rare Yes Yes Yes Final-obstruent devoicing No No No Yes Developing No Loss of initial *h- before consonant No No No Yes Yes Developing Loss of initial *w- before consonant No No No No Most dialects Yes High German consonant shift No No No No Partial Yes Phonology[edit] The original vowel system of West Germanic was similar to that of Proto-Germanic; note however the lowering of the long front vowels. Monophthong phonemes of West Germanic Front Central Back unrounded unrounded rounded short long short long short long Close i i? u u? Mid e e? o o? Open æ: a a? The consonant system was also essentially the same as that of Proto-Germanic. Note, however, the particular changes described above, as well as West Germanic gemination. Morphology[edit] Nouns[edit] The noun paradigms of Proto-West Germanic have been reconstructed as follows:[10] Case Nouns in -a- (m.) Nouns in -ja- Nouns in -ija- Nouns in -a- (n.) Nouns in -?- Nouns in -i- Nouns in -u- Nouns in -u- (n.) Singular Plural Singular Plural Singular Plural Singular Plural Singular Plural Singular Plural Singular Plural Singular Plural Nominative *dag? *dag?, -?s *harj? *harj?, -?s *hirdij? *hirdij?, -ij?s *jok? *joku *gebu *geb? *gasti *gast? *sunu *suniwi, -? *fehu (?) Vocative *dag *hari *hird? Accusative *dag? *dag?? *harj? *harj?? *hirdij? *hirdij?? *geb? *geb? *gast? *gast?? *sun? *sun?? Genitive *dagas *dag? *harjas *harj? *hirdijas *hirdij? *jokas *jok? *geb? *geb? *gast? *gastij? *sun? *suniw? *feh? Dative *dag? *dagum *harj? *harjum *hirdij? *hirdijum *jok? *jokum *geb? *geb?m *gastim *suniwi, -? *sunum *fehiwi, -? Instrumental *dagu *harju *hirdiju *joku *gebu *sunu *fehu West Germanic vocabulary[edit] The following table compares a number of Frisian, English, Dutch and German words with common West Germanic (or older) origin. The grammatical gender of each term is noted as masculine (m.), feminine (f.), or neuter (n.) where relevant. West Frisian English Dutch German Old English Old High German Proto-West-Germanic[11] Proto-Germanic kaam comb kam m. Kamm m. camb m. camb m. k?b? [see inscription of Erfurt-Frienstedt], *kamb? m. *kambaz m. dei day dag m. Tag m. dæ? m. tag m. *dag? m. *dagaz m. rein rain regen m. Regen m. re?n m. regan m. *regn? m. *regnaz m. wei way weg m. Weg m. we? m. weg m. *weg? m. *wegaz m. neil nail nagel m. Nagel m. næ?el m. nagal m. *nagl? m. *naglaz m. tsiis cheese kaas m. Käse m. ??se, ??ese m. ch?si, k?si m. *k?s? m. *k?sijaz m. (late Proto-Germanic, from Latin c?seus) tsjerke church kirk (Scotland) kerk f.,m. Kirche f. ?iri?e f. chirihha, *kirihha f. *kirik? f. *kirik? f. (from Ancient Greek kuriakón "belonging to the lord") sibbe sibling[note 1] sibbe f./m. Sippe f. sibb f. "kinship, peace" sippa f., Old Saxon: sibbia sibbju, sibbj? f. *sibj? f. "relationship, kinship, friendship" kaai f. key sleutel m. Schlüssel m. c??(e), c?ga f. "key, solution, experiment" sluzzil m. *slutil? m., *k?g? f. *slutilaz m. "key"; *k?gaz, *k?guz f. "stake, post, pole" ha west have been ben geweest bin gewesen twa skiep two sheep twee schapen n. zwei Schafe n. tw? s??ap n. zwei sc?fa n. *twai sk?pu n. *twai(?) sk?p? n. hawwe have hebben haben habban, hafian hab?n *habbjan? *habjan? ús us ons uns ?s uns *uns *uns brea bread brood n. Brot n. br?ad n. "fragment, bit, morsel, crumb" also "bread" br?t n. *braud? m. *braud? n. "cooked food, leavened bread" hier hair haar n. Haar n. h?r, h?r n. h?r n. *h?r? n. *h?r? n. ear ear oor n. Ohr n. ?are n. < pre-English *?ora ?ra n. *aura < *auza n. *auz?, *aus?n n. doar door deur f. Tür f. duru f. turi f. *duru f. *durz f. grien green groen grün gr?ne gruoni *gr?n? *gr?niz swiet sweet zoet süß sw?te s(w)uozi (< *sw?ti) *sw?t? *sw?tuz troch through door durch þurh duruh *þurhw wiet wet nat nass w?t naz (< *nat) *w?t? / *nat? *w?taz / *nataz each eye oog n. Auge n. ?a?e n. < pre-English *?oga ouga n. *auga n. *aug? n. dream dream droom m. Traum m. dr?am m. "joy, pleasure, ecstasy, music, song" troum m. *draum? m. *draumaz (< *draugmaz) m. stien stone steen m. Stein m. st?n m. stein m. *stain? m. *stainaz m. bed bed bed n. Bett n. bedd n. betti n. *badj? n. *badj? n. Other words, with a variety of origins: West Frisian English Dutch German Old English Old High German Proto-West-Germanic[11] Proto-Germanic tegearre together samen tezamen zusammen t?gædere samen t?samne saman zisamane *t?gadur *samana hynder horse paard n. ros n. (dated) Pferd n. / Ross n. hors n. eoh m. (h)ros n. / pfarifrit n. / ehu- (in compositions) *hruss? n. / *ehu m. *hruss? n., *ehwaz m. Note that some of the shown similarities of Frisian and English vis-à-vis Dutch and German are secondary and not due to a closer relationship between them. For example, the plural of the word for "sheep" was originally unchanged in all four languages and still is in some Dutch dialects and a great deal of German dialects. Many other similarities, however, are indeed old inheritances. Notes[edit] ^ Original meaning "relative" has become "brother or sister" in English. References[edit] ^ Hammarström, Harald; Forkel, Robert; Haspelmath, Martin, eds. (2017). "West Germanic". Glottolog 3.0. Jena, Germany: Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History. ^ Robinson (1992): p. 17-18 ^ Kuhn, Hans (1955–56). "Zur Gliederung der germanischen Sprachen". Zeitschrift für deutsches Altertum und deutsche Literatur. 86: 1–47. ^ Robinson, Orrin W. (1992). Old English and Its Closest Relatives. Stanford University Press. ISBN 0-8047-2221-8. ^ But see Cercignani, Fausto, Indo-European ? in Germanic, in «Zeitschrift für vergleichende Sprachforschung», 86/1, 1972, pp. 104–110. ^ Ringe, Don. 2006: A Linguistic History of English. Volume I. From Proto-Indo-European to Proto-Germanic, Oxford University Press, p. 213-214. ^ H. F. Nielsen (1981, 2001), G. Klingenschmitt (2002) and K.-H. Mottausch (1998, 2011) ^ Wolfram Euler: Das Westgermanische – von der Herausbildung im 3. bis zur Aufgliederung im 7. Jahrhundert — Analyse und Rekonstruktion (West Germanic: From its Emergence in the 3rd Century to its Split in the 7th Century: Analyses and Reconstruction). 244 p., in German with English summary, London/Berlin 2013, ISBN 978-3-9812110-7-8. ^ Graeme Davis (2006:154) notes "the languages of the Germanic group in the Old period are much closer than has previously been noted. Indeed it would not be inappropriate to regard them as dialects of one language. They are undoubtedly far closer one to another than are the various dialects of modern Chinese, for example. A reasonable modern analogy might be Arabic, where considerable dialectical diversity exists but within the concept of a single Arabic language." In: Davis, Graeme (2006). Comparative Syntax of Old English and Old Icelandic: Linguistic, Literary and Historical Implications. Bern: Peter Lang. ISBN 3-03910-270-2. ^ Ringe and Taylor. The Development of Old English. Oxford University Press. pp. 114–115. ^ a b sources: Ringe, Don / Taylor, Ann (2014) and Euler, Wolfram (2013), passim. Bibliography[edit] Adamus, Marian (1962). On the mutual relations between Nordic and other Germanic dialects. Germanica Wratislavensia 7. 115–158. Bammesberger, Alfred (Ed.) (1991), Old English Runes and their Continental Background. Heidelberg: Winter. Bammesberger, Alfred (1996). The Preterite of Germanic Strong Verbs in Classes Fore and Five, in "North-Western European Language Evolution" 27, 33–43. Bremmer, Rolf H., Jr. (2009). An Introduction to Old Frisian. History, Grammar, Reader, Glossary. Amsterdam / Philadelphia: Benjamins Publishing Company. Euler, Wolfram (2002/03). "Vom Westgermanischen zum Althochdeutschen" (From West Germanic to Old High German), Sprachaufgliederung im Dialektkontinuum, in Klagenfurter Beiträge zur Sprachwissenschaft, Vol. 28/29, 69–90. Euler, Wolfram (2013) Das Westgermanische – von der Herausbildung im 3. bis zur Aufgliederung im 7. Jahrhundert – Analyse und Rekonstruktion (West Germanic: from its Emergence in the 3rd up until its Dissolution in the 7th Century CE: Analyses and Reconstruction). 244 p., in German with English summary, Verlag Inspiration Un Limited, London/Berlin 2013, ISBN 978-3-9812110-7-8. Härke, Heinrich (2011). Anglo-Saxon Immigration and Ethnogenesis, in: „Medieval Archaeology” No. 55, 2011, pp. 1–28. Hilsberg, Susan (2009). Place-Names and Settlement History. Aspects of Selected Topographical Elements on the Continent and in England, Magister Theses, Universität Leipzig. Klein, Thomas (2004). "Im Vorfeld des Althochdeutschen und Altsächsischen" (Prior to Old High German and Old Saxon), in Entstehung des Deutschen. Heidelberg, 241–270. Kortlandt, Frederik (2008). Anglo-Frisian, in „North-Western European Language Evolution“ 54/55, 265 – 278. Looijenga, Jantina Helena (1997). Runes around the North Sea and on the Continent AD 150–700; Text & Contents. Groningen: SSG Uitgeverij. Friedrich Maurer (1942), Nordgermanen und Alemannen: Studien zur germanischen und frühdeutschen Sprachgeschichte, Stammes- und Volkskunde, Strassburg: Hüneburg. Mees, Bernard (2002). The Bergakker inscription and the beginnings of Dutch, in „Amsterdamer Beiträge zur älteren Germanistik” 56, 23–26. Mottausch, Karl-Heinz (1998). Die reduplizierenden Verben im Nord- und Westgermanischen: Versuch eines Raum-Zeit-Modells, in "North-Western European Language Evolution" 33, 43–91. Nielsen, Hans F. (1981). Old English and the Continental Germanic languages. A Survey of Morphological and Phonological Interrelations. Innsbruck: Institut für Sprachwissenschaft. (2nd edition 1985) Nielsen, Hans Frede. (2000). Ingwäonisch. In Heinrich Beck et al. (eds.), Reallexikon der Germanischen Altertumskunde (2. Auflage), Band 15, 432–439. Berlin: De Gruyter. Page, Raymond I. (1999). An Introduction to English Runes, 2. edition. Woodbridge: Bogdell Press. Page, Raymond I. (2001). Frisian Runic Inscriptions, in Horst Munske et al., "Handbuch des Friesischen". Tübingen, 523–530. Ringe, Donald R. (2012). Cladistic principles and linguistic reality: the case of West Germanic. In Philomen Probert and Andreas Willi (eds.), Laws and Rules on Indo-European, 33–42. Oxford. Ringe, Donald R. and Taylor, Ann (2014). The Development of Old English – A Linguistic History of English, vol. II, 632p. ISBN 978-0199207848. Oxford. Robinson, Orrin W. (1992). Old English and Its Closest Relatives. A Survey of the Earliest Germanic Languages. Stanford University Press. Seebold, Elmar (1998). "Die Sprache(n) der Germanen in der Zeit der Völkerwanderung" (The Language(s) of the Germanic Peoples during the Migration Period), in E. Koller & H. Laitenberger, Suevos – Schwaben. Das Königreich der Sueben auf der Iberischen Halbinsel (411–585). Tübingen, 11–20. Seebold, Elmar (2006). "Westgermanische Sprachen" (West Germanic Languages), in Reallexikon der germanischen Altertumskunde 33, 530–536. Stifter, David (2009). "The Proto-Germanic shift *? > ? and early Germanic linguistic contacts", in Historische Sprachforschung 122, 268–283. Stiles, Patrick V. (1995). Remarks on the “Anglo-Frisian” thesis, in „Friesische Studien I”. Odense, 177–220. Stiles, Patrick V. (2004). Place-adverbs and the development of Proto-Germanic long *?1 in early West Germanic. In Irma Hyvärinen et al. (Hg.), Etymologie, Entlehnungen und Entwicklungen. Mémoires de la Soc. Néophil. de Helsinki 63. Helsinki. 385–396. Stiles, Patrick V. (2013). The Pan-West Germanic Isoglosses and the Subrelationships of West Germanic to Other Branches. In Unity and Diversity in West Germanic, I. Special issue of NOWELE 66:1 (2013), Nielsen, Hans Frede and Patrick V. Stiles (eds.), 5 ff. Voyles, Joseph B. (1992). Early Germanic Grammar: pre-, proto-, and post-Germanic Language. San Diego: Academic Press External links[edit] West Germanic languagesat Wikipedia's sister projects Definitions from Wiktionary Media from Wikimedia Commons Texts from Wikisource Textbooks from Wikibooks Travel guide from Wikivoyage Resources from Wikiversity Data from Wikidata Germanic languages at Curlie v t e Germanic languages According to contemporary philology West Germanic Anglo-Frisian Anglic English dialects Yola Fingallian Scots Frisian East Frisian Saterland Frisian Wangerooge Frisian Wursten Frisian North Frisian Söl'ring Fering Öömrang Heligolandic Mooring Halligen Frisian Strand Frisian Eiderstedt Frisian West Frisian Clay Frisian Wood Frisian Low German West Low German Dutch Low Saxon Stellingwarfs Tweants Gronings Drèents Gelders-Overijssels Achterhooks Sallaans Urkers Veluws Northern Low Saxon East Frisian Low Saxon Schleswigsch Holsteinisch Hamburgisch Ollnborger North Hanoveranian Dithmarsch Emsländisch Westphalian Eastphalian East Low German Mecklenburg-Western Pomeranian Mecklenburgish West Pomeranian Brandenburgisch East Pomeranian-West Prussian Western East Pomeranian Eastern East Pomeranian Bublitzisch Pommerellisch Central Pomeranian West Central Pomeranian Low Prussian Mennonite Low German Low Franconian Standard variants Dutch Afrikaans West Low Franconian Hollandic West Flemish French Flemish Zeelandic East Flemish Brabantian Surinamese Dutch Jersey Dutch Mohawk Dutch Stadsfries Bildts Yiddish Dutch East Low Franconian Meuse-Rhenish Limburgish Southeast Limburgish South Guelderish Transitional Low Dietsch High German Standard variants German Namibian German Namibian Black German Brazilian German Unserdeutsch Barossa German Belgranodeutsch Parana Volga German Kiautschou Pidgin German Yiddish Eastern Western Litvish Poylish Ukrainish Galitzish Scots Yiddish Alsatian Yiddish Klezmer-loshn Ganovim Balagole Katsoves Lachoudisch Yenish Rotwelsch Lotegorisch Central German West Central German Central Franconian Ripuarian Colognian Moselle Franconian Luxembourgish Transylvanian Saxon Hunsrückisch Riograndenser Hunsrückisch Rhine Franconian Lorraine Franconian Palatine Volga German Pennsylvania German Hessian Amana East Central German Thuringian Upper Saxon Ore Mountainian Lusatian-Neumarkish Berlinerisch Silesian German High Prussian Wymysorys Halcnovian Prague German High Franconian South Franconian East Franconian Main Franconian Vogtlandian Upper German Alemannic Low Alemannic Alsatian Coloniero High Alemannic Swiss German Highest Alemannic Walser German Swabian Bavarian Northern Bavarian Central Bavarian Viennese German Southern Bavarian South Tyrolean Cimbrian Mòcheno Hutterite German Langobardic Standard German German Standard German Austrian Standard German Swiss Standard German North Germanic and East Germanic North Germanic West Scandinavian Norwegian Bokmål Bergensk Kebabnorsk Sognamål Trøndersk Valdris Vestlandsk Vikværsk Nynorsk Insular Scandinavian Faroese Icelandic Gronlandsk Norn East Scandinavian Swedish Åland Estonian Finlandic Gotlandic/Gutnish Jamtlandic Kalix Kiruna Luleå Norrland Ostrobothnian Småländska South Swedish Scanian Stockholm Rinkeby Uppländska Västgötska Westrobothnian Danish Bornholmsk Gøtudanskt Insular Danish Jutlandic South Jutlandic Perkerdansk Dalecarlian Elfdalian East Germanic Gothic Crimean Gothic Burgundian Vandalic Italics indicate extinct languages Languages between parentheses are varieties of the language on their left. v t e Philology of Germanic languages Language subgroups North East West Elbe Weser-Rhine North Sea Northwest Gotho-Nordic South Reconstructed Proto-Germanic Proto-Germanic grammar Germanic parent language Historical languages North Proto-Norse Old Norse Old Swedish Old Gutnish Norn Greenlandic Norse Old Norwegian Middle Norwegian East Gothic Crimean Gothic Vandalic Burgundian West Old Saxon Middle Low German Old High German Middle High German Frankish Old Dutch Middle Dutch Old Frisian Middle Frisian Old English Middle English Yola Early Scots Middle Scots Lombardic Modern languages Afrikaans Alemannic Cimbrian Danish Dutch English Faroese German Icelandic Limburgish Low German Mennonite Low German Luxembourgish North Frisian Norwegian Saterland Frisian Scots Swedish West Frisian Yiddish Diachronic features Grimm's law Verner's law Holtzmann's law Sievers's law Kluge's law Germanic substrate hypothesis West Germanic gemination High German consonant shift Germanic a-mutation Germanic umlaut Germanic spirant law Ingvaeonic nasal spirant law Great Vowel Shift Synchronic features Germanic verb Germanic strong verb Germanic weak verb Preterite-present verb Grammatischer Wechsel Indo-European ablaut Language histories English (phonology) Scots (phonology) German Dutch Danish Icelandic Swedish v t e History of English Proto-Indo-European Proto-Germanic Proto-West-Germanic Anglo-Frisian languages Old English Kentish Mercian Northumbrian West Saxon Anglo-Norman language Middle English Early Modern English Modern English Phonological history Vowels Great Vowel Shift Open unrounded vowels Open back vowels Close back vowels Close front vowels Diphthongs Changes before historic /l/ Changes before historic /r/ Trisyllabic laxing Consonants Rhoticity Flapping T-glottalization L-vocalization Consonant clusters H-dropping Wh Th Th-fronting Th-stopping Authority control BNF: cb11938810x (data) GND: 4447499-4 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=West_Germanic_languages&oldid=940640545" Categories: Germanic languages West Germanic languages Hidden categories: Articles lacking in-text citations from October 2017 All articles lacking in-text citations Articles needing additional references from July 2019 All articles needing additional references Articles with Curlie links Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans Alemannisch ???? Ænglisc ??????? Aragonés Asturianu ?????? ????? Bân-lâm-gú ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)? ??????? ????????? Boarisch Català ?eština Deutsch Dolnoserbski Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Føroyskt Français Frysk Galego ??? ??????? Hornjoserbsce Hrvatski Ido Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano Latina Latviešu Lietuvi? Limburgs Magyar ?????????? Bahasa Melayu Nederlands Nedersaksies ??? Nordfriisk Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk ?????? Papiamentu Patois Plattdüütsch Polski Português Român? ??????? Scots Seeltersk Shqip Sloven?ina ?????? / srpski Suomi Taqbaylit ??? Türkçe ?????????? ???? Ti?ng Vi?t West-Vlams ?? Yorùbá ?? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 13 February 2020, at 19:28 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Jesse@Thomas.com
