Wikipedia logo - Wikipedia Wikipedia logo From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This is the latest accepted revision, reviewed on 23 March 2020. Jump to navigation Jump to search Logo of online encyclopedia Wikipedia For Wikipedia's internal page on its past and present logos, see Wikipedia:Wikipedia logos Wikipedia's logo Wikipedia logos used on the mobile application and website The logo of Wikipedia, an Internet-based free multilingual encyclopedia, is an unfinished globe constructed from jigsaw pieces—some pieces are missing at the top—inscribed with glyphs from many different writing systems. As displayed on the web pages of the English-language version of Wikipedia, there is a wordmark "Wikipedia" under the globe, and below that the text "The Free Encyclopedia" in the free open-source Linux Libertine font.[1][2] Contents 1 Puzzle-globe design 2 History 3 Current logo 4 Trademark 5 Logos 6 See also 7 References 8 External links Puzzle-globe design[edit] A partial globe hangs in the Wikimedia Foundation office. Each piece bears a glyph (a letter or other character), or glyphs, symbolizing the multilingualism of Wikipedia. As with the Latin letter “W”, these glyphs are in most cases the first glyph or glyphs of the name “Wikipedia” rendered in that language. They are as follows:[3] At left, from the top down, are Armenian ??? v, Cambodian ???? v? (lying on its side), Bengali ??? U, Devanagari ?? vi, and Georgian ??? v. In the middle-left column is Greek ??? ?, and below that are Chinese ??? wéi,[4] Kannada ???? vi, and (barely visible at the bottom) Tibetan ? ??? wi. In the middle-right column is Latin ?W?. Above that is Japanese ???? wi; below it are Cyrillic ??? i, Hebrew ??? v, and (barely visible at the bottom) Tamil ???? vi. The rightmost column is Ethiopic ??? w?, Arabic ??? w, Korean ??? wi, and Thai ???? wi. The empty space at the top represents the incomplete nature of the project, the articles and languages yet to be added.[citation needed]. History[edit] Wikipedia's logo used from 2003 until 2010 Logo creator Paul Stansifer at the Wikimedia Foundation in front of the Wikipedia Puzzle Globe Logo sculpture in May 2012 See Wikipedia:Wikipedia logos for details of previous logos, including the glyphs used. The design of "WIKIPEDIA" text beneath a globe, with the interlocking-V W and large A, was designed by Wikipedia user The Cunctator for a November 2001 logo contest.[5] An initial design of the puzzle-globe logo was created by Paul Stansifer, a then 17-year-old Wikipedia user, whose entry won a design competition run by the site in 2003. Another Wikipedia user, David Friedland, subsequently improved the logo by changing the styling of the jigsaw pieces so that their boundaries seemed indented and simplified their contents to be a single glyph per piece, rather than a jumble of nonsense multilingual text.[6] In the process, some errors were introduced.[6] In particular, one piece of Devanagari script and one piece of Japanese katakana were incorrectly rendered.[7] Also, the Chinese character (?) has no immediate connection with Wikipedia. Current logo[edit] Glyphs contained in the new logotype A "Wikiball" In 2007, a modified 3D model was developed by Wikimedia Taiwan for Wikimania, when they distributed a 3-inch diameter spherical puzzle based on the logo, that attendees could piece together. It did not add other glyphs on the parts that cannot be seen on the 2D logo, but used that space to include small logos of the sister projects and information about Wikimania. A variant of that model was used to build a person-sized Wikiball that spun on a stand, featured during the event.[8] This led to a renewed interest in getting a proper 3D model for the logo. The 3D Wikipedia puzzle from Wikimania 2007 By 2007, users on listservs discovered that the logo had some minor errors. The errors were not immediately fixed, because, according to Friedland, he could not locate the original project file. Friedland added that "I have tried to reconstruct it, but it never looks right" and that the logo "should be redrawn by a professional illustrator."[6] Kizu Naoko (?? ??), a Wikipedian, said that most Japanese users supported correcting the errors. In an e-mail to Noam Cohen of The New York Times, Kizu said that "It could be an option to leave them as they are. Most people don't take it serious [sic] and think the graphical logo is a sort of pot-au-feu of various letters without meaning."[6] In late 2009, the Wikimedia Foundation undertook to fix the errors and generally update the puzzle globe logo. Among other concerns, the original logo did not scale well and some letters appeared distorted.[9] For the new logo, the Wikimedia Foundation defined which characters appear on the "hidden" puzzle pieces, and had a three-dimensional computer model of the globe created to allow the generation of other views.[10] A partial 3D globe was commissioned for the Wikimedia office.[11] The logo was rolled out on the projects in May 2010. It features the new 3D rendering of the puzzle globe, with corrected characters (and the Klingon character replaced by a Ge'ez character). The wordmark has been modified from the Hoefler Text font to the open-source Linux Libertine font, and the subtitle is no longer italicized. The "W" character, which was used in various other places in Wikipedia (such as the favicon) and was a "distinctive part of the Wikipedia brand", was stylized as crossed V's in the original logo, ?W?, while the W in Linux Libertine is rendered with a single line. To provide the traditional appearance of the Wikipedia "W", a "crossed" W was added as an OpenType variant to the Linux Libertine font.[1] On October 24, 2014, the Wikimedia Foundation released the logo, along with all other logos belonging to the Foundation, under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 license.[12] On September 29, 2017, the logo of Wikipedia was submerged to the bottom of Armenia’s Lake Sevan thanks to the joint efforts of Wikimedia Armenia and ArmDiving divers’ club. The logo is an unfinished globe made of puzzle pieces with symbols (including Armenian “v” letter) from different sign systems written on them. The 2m wide, 2m high logo (the largest in the world) was made in Armenia for the annual meeting of the Central and Eastern Europe Wikimedia affiliates, Wikimedia CEE Meeting that the country hosted in August 2016 in Dilijan.[13] Trademark[edit] This section needs expansion with: registration status in the USA and other countries. You can help by adding to it. (September 2011) The (former) logo was registered as a European Community Trade Mark by Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. The trade mark bears a filing date of 31 January 2008 and a registration date of 20 January 2009.[14] Logos[edit] 2001 (tentative) 2001–2003 2003–2010 2010–present See also[edit] Content guideline: using logos on Wikipedia References[edit] ^ a b Poll, Philipp H. "New Wikipedia-Logo using LinuxLibertine". Libertine Open Fonts Project. Retrieved 2018-08-09. ^ Oma L Gallaga (May 23, 2010), New Globe, User Interface For Wikipedia, NPR ^ "What characters are on the Wikipedia puzzle globe?". ^ see ???? ^ Ayers, Phoebe; Matthews, Charles; Ayers, Ben (2008). How Wikipedia Works: And how You Can be a Part of it. No Starch Press. p. 47. ^ a b c d Noam Cohen (June 25, 2007). "Some Errors Defy Fixes: A Typo in Wikipedia's Logo Fractures the Sanskrit". The New York Times. ^ "This Logo Is a Work in Progress." The New York Times. June 24, 2007. Retrieved on July 11, 2011. ^ It was torn down after the event. See this Category of Commons images for a sense of its size. ^ "brand new" about new logo ^ Wikimedia blog – Wikipedia in 3d ^ The work was done by the Because We Can studio, based on the new digital 3D model. ^ "Wikimedia Logos Have Been Freed! « Wikimedia blog". ^ "World's largest Wikipedia logo now sits on bottom of Lake Sevan". ^ "Case details for Community Trade Mark E6671838". ipo.gov.uk. UK Intellectual Property Office. January 20, 2009. Retrieved December 18, 2013. External links[edit] Wikimedia Blog: Wikipedia in 3D – 3D version of the Wikipedia logo unveiled; description of the new puzzle globe logo Wikimedia Blog: A new look for Wikipedia Wikipedia:Wikipedia logos v t e Wikipedia Overview (Outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing Criticism gender bias ideological bias racial bias Deletionism and inclusionism MediaWiki Notability Reliability Vandalism Predictions of the project's end Community Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Citation needed Edit-a-thon "Ignore all rules" policy List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikipedian in residence WikiConference North America Wikimania WikiProject Women in Red People Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Erik Möller Ira Brad Matetsky Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales Wikipedians Wikimedian of the Year History Bomis Logo Controversies U.S. Congressional staff edits Essjay controversy Seigenthaler biography incident Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Italian Wikipedia blackout English Wikipedia blackout Hillsborough Wikipedia posts MyWikiBiz Lsjbot VisualEditor Art+Feminism #1Lib1Ref Honors 2008 Quadriga award Wikipedia Monument 2015 Erasmus Prize 2015 Princess of Asturias Award References and analysis Cultural Bibliography Films Academic studies Listen to Wikipedia Wiki-Watch Wikipediocracy WikiScanner Wikipedia Review Mobile access Apps QRpedia Wapedia WikiNodes Wikipedia Zero Wikiwand Content use Books LLC Boundless (company) DBpedia Deletionpedia Kiwix WikiReader Science information Health information Similar projects Interpedia Nupedia Citizendium Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Everipedia Veropedia List of online encyclopedias List of wikis Related Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs Print Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) 274301 Wikipedia Viola wikipedia List Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia_logo&oldid=947030604" Categories: Logos Wikipedia Symbols introduced in 2001 Hidden categories: Wikipedia pending changes protected pages Articles with short description Pages using multiple image with manual scaled images Articles containing Khmer-language text Articles containing Kannada-language text Articles containing Hebrew-language text Articles containing Arabic-language text All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from December 2016 Articles containing Japanese-language text Articles to be expanded from September 2011 All articles to be expanded Articles using small message boxes Articles containing Spanish-language text Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Meta-Wiki Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ????? Català Deutsch ???????? Español ????? Français ??? ??????? Bahasa Indonesia ????? ??????? Lietuvi? Bahasa Melayu ?????? Nederlands ??? Polski Português ??????? Simple English ???? Tagalog ????? Türkçe ?????????? ???? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? ?? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 23 March 2020, at 21:34 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Harold@Thomas.gov.ca
