Wikipedia:WikiProject Countering systemic bias - Wikipedia Wikipedia:WikiProject Countering systemic bias From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Wikimedia content balance collaboration See also: Wikipedia:Systemic bias This is a WikiProject, an area for focused collaboration among Wikipedians. New participants are welcome; please feel free to join! Guide to WikiProjects Directory of WikiProjects Shortcut WP:CSB WikiProject Countering systemic bias Shortcut WP:CSB Category WikiProject Countering systemic bias Userbox {{User CSB}} The Wikipedia project suffers systemic bias that naturally grows from its contributors' demographic groups, manifesting in imbalanced coverage of some subjects, thereby leaving less represented demographic groups without adequate coverage. See an explanation of systemic bias on Wikipedia for how this may affect articles and content. This project aims to eliminate the cultural perspective gaps made by the systemic bias, consciously focusing upon subjects and points of view neglected by the encyclopedia as a whole. A list of articles needing attention is in the CSB Open Tasks list. Generally, this project concentrates upon remedying omissions (entire topics, or particular sub-topics in extant articles) rather than on either (1) protesting against inappropriate inclusions, or (2) trying to remedy issues of how material is presented. Thus, the first question is "What haven't we covered yet?", rather than "how should we change the existing coverage?" The 22 October 2013 essay by Tom Simonite in MIT's Technology Review titled "The Decline of Wikipedia"[1] discussed the effect of systemic bias and policy creep on recent downward trends in the number of editors available to support Wikipedia's range and coverage of topics. See § Further reading for studies, statistics, and more information that demonstrate contributor or subject imbalances. Contents 1 Systemic bias in coverage and selection of articles 1.1 Selection based on notability of article topics 1.2 Selection based on gender bias 1.3 Distinguishing between selection bias and systemic bias 1.3.1 Selection bias 1.3.2 Systemic bias 2 Countering systemic bias task forces 3 Tasks 4 Related WikiProjects and regional noticeboards 4.1 Africa 4.2 Latin America 4.3 Asia 4.4 Europe 4.5 Other projects 5 Related cleanup templates 6 Members 7 References 8 See also 9 Further reading 10 External links Systemic bias in coverage and selection of articles[edit] This section has been copied and pasted from Criticism of Wikipedia § Systemic bias in coverage. See also: Academic studies about Wikipedia § A minority of editors produce the majority of persistent content Wikipedia has been accused of systemic bias in the selection of articles which it maintains in its various language editions. Such alleged bias in the selection of articles leads, without necessarily any conscious intention, to the propagation of various prejudices. Although many articles in newspapers have concentrated on minor factual errors in Wikipedia articles, there are also concerns about large-scale, presumably unintentional effects from the increasing influence and use of Wikipedia as a research tool at all levels. In an article in the Times Higher Education magazine (London) philosopher Martin Cohen frames Wikipedia of having "become a monopoly" with "all the prejudices and ignorance of its creators", which he describes as a "youthful cab-driver's" perspective.[2] Cohen's argument, however, finds a grave conclusion in these circumstances: "To control the reference sources that people use is to control the way people comprehend the world. Wikipedia may have a benign, even trivial face, but underneath may lie a more sinister and subtle threat to freedom of thought."[2] That freedom is undermined by what he sees as what matters on Wikipedia, "not your sources but the 'support of the community'."[2] Critics also point to the tendency to cover topics in a detail disproportionate to their importance. For example, Stephen Colbert once mockingly praised Wikipedia for having a "longer entry on 'lightsabers' than it does on the 'printing press'".[3] In an interview with The Guardian, Dale Hoiberg, the editor-in-chief of Encyclopædia Britannica, noted: People write on things they're interested in, and so many subjects don't get covered; and news events get covered in great detail. In the past, the entry on Hurricane Frances was more than five times the length of that on Chinese art, and the entry on Coronation Street was twice as long as the article on Tony Blair.[4] This critical approach has been satirised "Wikigroaning", a term coined by Jon Hendren[5] of the website Something Awful.[6] He suggests a game where two articles (preferably with similar names) are compared: one about an acknowledged serious or classical subject and the other about a topic popular or current.[clarification needed][7] Defenders of a broad inclusion criteria have held that the encyclopedia's coverage of pop culture does not impose space constraints on the coverage of more serious subjects (see "Wiki is not paper"). As Ivor Tossell noted: That Wikipedia is chock full of useless arcana (and did you know, by the way, that the article on "Debate" is shorter than the piece that weighs the relative merits of the 1978 and 2003 versions of Battlestar Galactica?) isn't a knock against it: Since it can grow infinitely, the silly articles aren't depriving the serious ones of space.[8] Selection based on notability of article topics[edit] Wikipedia's notability guidelines, and the application thereof, are the subject of much criticism.[9] Nicholson Baker considers the notability standards arbitrary and essentially unsolvable:[10] There are quires, reams, bales of controversy over what constitutes notability in Wikipedia: nobody will ever sort it out. Criticizing the "deletionists", Nicholson Baker then writes:[9] Still, a lot of good work—verifiable, informative, brain-leapingly strange—is being cast out of this paperless, infinitely expandable accordion folder by people who have a narrow, almost grade-schoolish notion of what sort of curiosity an on-line encyclopedia will be able to satisfy in the years to come. [...] It's harder to improve something that's already written, or to write something altogether new, especially now that so many of the World Book–sanctioned encyclopedic fruits are long plucked. There are some people on Wikipedia now who are just bullies, who take pleasure in wrecking and mocking peoples' work—even to the point of laughing at nonstandard "Engrish." They poke articles full of warnings and citation-needed notes and deletion prods till the topics go away. Yet another criticism[11] about the deletionists is this: "The increasing difficulty of making a successful edit; the exclusion of casual users; slower growth – all are hallmarks of the deletionists approach." Complaining that his own biography was on the verge of deletion for lack of notability, Timothy Noah argued that:[12] Wikipedia's notability policy resembles U.S. immigration policy before 9/11: stringent rules, spotty enforcement. To be notable, a Wikipedia topic must be "the subject of multiple, non-trivial published works from sources that are reliable and independent of the subject and of each other." Although I have written or been quoted in such works, I can't say I've ever been the subject of any. And wouldn't you know, some notability cop cruised past my bio and pulled me over. Unless I get notable in a hurry—win the Nobel Peace Prize? Prove I sired Anna Nicole Smith's baby daughter?—a "sysop" (volunteer techie) will wipe my Wikipedia page clean. It's straight out of Philip K. Dick. In the same article, Noah mentions that the Pulitzer Prize-winning writer Stacy Schiff was not considered notable enough for a Wikipedia entry before she wrote an extensive New Yorker article on Wikipedia itself. Selection based on gender bias[edit] Main article: Gender imbalance on Wikipedia Wikipedia has a longstanding controversy concerning gender bias and sexism.[13][14][15][16][17][18] Wikipedia has been criticized[13] by some journalists and academics for lacking not only female contributors but also extensive and in-depth encyclopedic attention to many topics regarding gender. An article in The New York Times cites a Wikimedia Foundation study which found that fewer than 13% of contributors to Wikipedia were women. Sue Gardner, then the executive director of the foundation, said increasing diversity was about making the encyclopedia "as good as it could be". Factors the article cited as possibly discouraging women from editing included the "obsessive fact-loving realm", associations with the "hard-driving hacker crowd", and the necessity to be "open to very difficult, high-conflict people, even misogynists".[14] Distinguishing between selection bias and systemic bias[edit] Selection bias[edit] Selection bias occurs when the general cross-section of Wikipedia articles becomes biased due to the often unintended result of subtle shifts against neutrality in article creation or editing — represented collectively by all editors as these biases accumulate over time. In the WP:Real world the study of systemic bias is part of a field titled organizational behavior within industrial organization economics. It is studied for both non-profit and for-profit institutions. The issue of concern is that patterns of behavior may develop within large institutions, such as Wikipedia, which become institutionally maladapted and harmful to their productivity and viability. Systemic bias[edit] The eight major categories of study for maladaptive organizational behavior as they apply to maintaining and supporting Wikipedia are: (1) Counterproductive work behavior, or CWB, consisting of behavior by editors that harms or is intended to harm Wikipedia or its editors' constructive contributions – usually identified as "edit warring" or "disruptive editing";[19] (2) Mistreatment of the people who edit and maintain Wikipedia. There are several types of mistreatment that editors endure – along with a large contingent of corrective measures and norms of editing policy available as countermeasures; (3) Abusive supervision; that is, in most organizations, the extent to which a supervisor engages in a pattern of behavior that harms subordinates: In Wikipedia this term would be applied to abusive editors who are entrusted with corrective procedures or referrals to others for correction;[20] (4) Bullying. Although definitions of bullying vary, it involves a repeated pattern of harmful behaviors directed towards individuals, and in Wikipedia this would mean any individual editor;[21] (5) Incivility, or low-intensity discourteous and rude behavior with ambiguous intent to detract from productivity and violate norms for appropriate behavior in the workplace, such as that which may be found while editing contributions;[22] (6) Gender bias, behavior that denigrates or mistreats a worker because of his or her gender, that creates an offensive workplace or that interferes with anybody being able to do the job. The gender gap at Wikipedia is well recognized as an issue deserving of attention, as discussed in the subsection above. Although an effective counter-measure to this gender gap has yet to be fully identified at Wikipedia, several programs have been examined for their potential in moving towards achieving gender equality;[23] (7) Occupational stress, or the imbalance between the demands of a job and the resources that help cope with them. In Wikipedia, this term would cover the editing process, which requires mental and physical effort;[24] and (8) Maladaptive standards and practices, in which the accumulation of piecemeal standards adopted over time begin to show a cumulative negative effect.[25] In Wikipedia these dimensions would include WP:Instruction creep. Countering systemic bias task forces[edit] Some task forces that focus on particular aspects of systemic bias are linked below: Wikipedia:WikiProject Countering systemic bias/Gender gap task force Wikipedia:WikiProject Countering systemic bias/Geography Wikipedia:WikiProject Countering systemic bias/Global perspective Wikipedia:WikiProject Countering systemic bias/History Wikipedia:WikiProject Countering systemic bias/Mathematics Wikipedia:WikiProject Countering systemic bias/Politics Wikipedia:WikiProject Countering systemic bias in religion Tasks[edit] There are many things you may do, listed roughly from least to most intensive: Sign up as a participant and mention any interests you may have related to "Countering systemic bias" (CSB). Add the Open Tasks box ({{WikiProjectCSBTasks}}) to your User or User talk page to let other people know about the issue. Read news articles in as many languages as you know, from as many news sources as you can find, from as many political view points as you can find (especially those that you would normally not read) when examining a topical or recent event or editing an existing article related to a particular subject. Don't overlook the official news outlets of a country. Certainly they will be more one sided than Wikipedians may like, but they may provide a different way of thinking about an article. They may also be useful as a primary source of information about why the government of that particular country has its opinion on a subject and why it acts the way it does. The readers of Wikipedia could benefit from this, regardless of whether they agree with that view or not (if they don't, they may use it to find errors in its logic or thinking). For example, official news outlets may be useful indicators of how Mainland China thinks about Tibet or Taiwan. Secondly, they may provide relevant non-controversial information about the country or its leaders which could help in improving the article on that topic, for instance, date and place of birth, occupation of leaders, cultural heritage of, links to and other tidbits which may not be available elsewhere. See if there are web pages on a particular subject which were written by people from other countries or cultures. It may provide you other places to look or other points of view to consider. Be more conscious of your own biases in the course of normal editing. Look at the articles you work on usually and think about whether they are written from an international perspective. If not, you might be able to learn a lot about a subject you thought you knew by adding content with a different perspective. Occasionally edit a subject that is systemically biased against the pages of your natural interests. The net effect of consciously changing one out of every twenty of your edits to something outside your "comfort zone" would be substantial. Create or edit one of the articles listed on the CSB template. If you don't particularly like any of the subjects on the template, our open tasks list has a wide array of articles in need of attention. Add to the open tasks list. No one person can fix a system-wide problem, so be sure to tell people when you find needy articles. Rotate articles from the open tasks list to the template, and other helpful tidying tasks. Check articles to see if they still need work, and if they've been improved move them to the right section or leave a note. Give feedback on this WikiProject on the talk page. If you're multilingual, add information from Wikipedia articles in other languages to their English Wikipedia counterparts. Contribute to articles on under-represented topics that you are familiar with. Be careful not to worsen the bias with your deletion nominations. If you are not familiar with a subject area, or it has meaning outside your experience base, discuss your concerns on the talk page or another appropriate forum before making an AfD nomination. Change the demographic of Wikipedia. Encourage friends and acquaintances that you know have interests that are not well-represented on Wikipedia to edit. If you are at high school or university, contact a professor in minority, women's, or critical studies, explain the problem, and ask if they would be willing to encourage students to write for Wikipedia. Contact minority or immigrant organizations in your area to see if they would be interested in encouraging their members to contribute. The worst they could say is, "No". But keep in mind that immigrant organizations may well have a different point of view than the majority of people in the countries they emigrated from (their members may, for example, be members of a minority themselves or may have emigrated because of a disagreement with the government not shared by the majority of the population), which introduces its own systemic bias. Related WikiProjects and regional noticeboards[edit] There are several WikiProjects and regional notice boards that have potential to help out in our efforts. We may also eventually want to create new WikiProjects as part of this effort. Article Rescue Squadron Middle Eastern military history task force WikiProject Authors WikiProject Biblical Criticism WikiProject Biography WikiProject Catholicism WikiProject Disability WikiProject Ethnic Groups WikiProject Gender Studies WikiProject Feminism Hinduism-related topics notice board WikiProject Islam WikiProject Languages WikiProject Organized Labour WikiProject political figures WikiProject Military history WikiProject World music (includes tasks to do) Wikipedia:WikiProject Women's sport Wikipedia:WikiProject Football/Women's football task force Wikipedia:WikiProject Women scientists Wikipedia:WikiProject Women's health See also: Category:WikiProjects relevant for countering systemic bias {{Infobox WikiProject}}, which has a |csb=yes parameter putting projects in that category Africa[edit] Africa-related regional notice board WikiProject Countering systemic bias is one of the African WikiProjects: Pan-African Wiki Loves Africa WikiAfrica WikiIndaba Conference Continental Africa Northern Africa Algeria Egypt Libya Morocco South Sudan Sudan Tunisia Western Sahara Eastern Africa Burundi Comoros Djibouti Eritrea Ethiopia Kenya Madagascar Malawi Mauritius Mozambique Rwanda Seychelles Somalia Somaliland Tanzania Uganda Zambia Zimbabwe Middle Africa Angola Cameroon Central African Republic Chad Democratic Republic of the Congo Republic of the Congo Equatorial Guinea Gabon Sao Tome and Principe Southern Africa Botswana Eswatini Lesotho Namibia South Africa Western Africa Benin Burkina Faso Cape Verde Gambia Ghana Guinea Guinea-Bissau Ivory Coast Liberia Mali Mauritania Niger Nigeria Rivers State Senegal Sierra Leone Togo Territories French Africa Madeira Saint Helena Spanish Africa Culture Igbo Yoruba History African military history Early Muslim military history Ottoman military history Society African diaspora Protected areas Related Arab world Arab-Israeli conflict Commonwealth France Portugal Spain United Kingdom v t e Africa topic templates Sovereign states Algeria Angola Benin Botswana Burkina Faso Burundi Cameroon Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Comoros Democratic Republic of the Congo Republic of the Congo Côte d'Ivoire (Ivory Coast) Djibouti Egypt1 Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Ethiopia Gabon The Gambia Ghana Guinea Guinea-Bissau Kenya Lesotho Liberia Libya Madagascar Malawi Mali Mauritania Mauritius Morocco Mozambique Namibia Niger Nigeria Rwanda São Tomé and Príncipe Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Somalia South Africa South Sudan Sudan Swaziland Tanzania Togo Tunisia Uganda Zambia Zimbabwe States with limited recognition Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic Somaliland Dependencies, autonomies, other territories Canary Islands / Ceuta / Melilla / Plazas de soberanía (Spain) Madeira (Portugal) Mayotte / Réunion (France) Puntland (Somalia) Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha (United Kingdom) Western Sahara Zanzibar (Tanzania) 1 Transcontinental country Latin America[edit] Argentina-related regional notice board WikiProject Mexican-Americans Caribbean Wikipedians' notice board WikiProject Echo, which translates pages from other WikiProjects v t e Latin American WikiProjects Regional Caribbean Central America Indigenous peoples of the Americas Mesoamerica South America Caribbean Cuba Dominican Republic Guadeloupe Haiti Martinique Puerto Rico Saint Barthelemy Saint Martin Central America Costa Rica El Salvador Guatemala Honduras Nicaragua Panama North America Mexico Saint Pierre and Miquelon South America Argentina Bolivia Brazil Chile Colombia Ecuador Falkland Islands French Guiana Galápagos Islands Paraguay Peru South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Uruguay Venezuela Task forces and work groups Argentine cinema Argentine football Arts in Brazil Education and Science in Brazil Geography of Brazil Government and Laws of Brazil Sports in Brazil Brazilian Football Transportation in Brazil Latin American/Commonwealth Caribbean military history History of Brazil Venezuelan cinema Related United States/Hispanic and Latino Americans task force Latin music v t e Latin America and the Caribbean topic templates North America Mexico Central America Belize Costa Rica El Salvador Guatemala Honduras Nicaragua Panama Caribbean Antigua and Barbuda Bahamas Barbados Cuba Dominica Dominican Republic Grenada Haiti Jamaica Puerto Rico1 St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Vincent and the Grenadines Trinidad and Tobago South America Argentina Bolivia Brazil Chile Colombia Ecuador Guyana Paraguay Peru Suriname Uruguay Venezuela Dependencies not included.   1 Defined as a semi-autonomous territory. Asia[edit] These are the Asian WikiProjects: Continental Asia  Regional Caucasia | Central Asia | East Asia | South Asia | Southeast Asia | Western Asia North Asian countries Russia  Central Asian countries Kazakhstan | Kyrgyzstan | Tajikistan | Turkmenistan | Uzbekistan  East Asian countries Hong Kong | Japan | Macau | Mongolia | North Korea | People's Republic of China | Republic of China (Taiwan) | South Korea  South East Asian countries Brunei | Cambodia | East Timor | Indonesia | Laos | Malaysia | Myanmar | Philippines | Singapore | Thailand | Vietnam  South Asian countries Afghanistan | Bangladesh | Bhutan | India | Maldives | Nepal | Pakistan | Sri Lanka  West Asian countries Armenia | Azerbaijan | Bahrain | Cyprus | Egypt | Georgia | Iraq | Iran | Israel | Jordan | Kuwait | Lebanon | Oman | Palestinian territories | Qatar | Saudi Arabia | Syria | Turkey | United Arab Emirates | Yemen  Culture Indian cinema | Iranian football | Korean cinema | Pakistani cinema | Persian cinema | Persian literature | Southeast Asian cinema History Ancient Near East | Indian history | Ottoman Empire | Pakistani history | Soviet Union | Three Kingdoms | Zoroastrianism Military history Chinese | Early Muslim | Japanese | Korean | Middle Eastern | Ottoman | Russian and Soviet | South Asian | Southeast Asian  Society Dravidian civilizations | Hazara | Kurdistan | Pashtun | Punjab Related Arab world Commonwealth Also Middle East, under Category:WikiProject Middle East Notice board for Pakistan-related topics Notice board for India-related topics Indonesia-related topics notice board|topics notice board Thailand-related topics notice board Europe[edit] Further information: Wikipedia:WikiProject Council/Directory/Geographical/Europe WikiProject Basque WikiProject Belarus WikiProject Bulgaria WikiProject Estonia WikiProject Galicia WikiProject Latvia WikiProject Moldova WikiProject Netherlands Other projects[edit] meta:Wikimedia urban postering campaign Wikipedia:WikiProject Interlanguage Links/Ideas from the Hebrew Wikipedia - a project in the Hebrew Wikipedia, and in the first stages of being exported to other languages, to add interlanguage links to articles which don't have them. One of its positive side effects is that it facilitates writing articles about the culture specific to that language. Wikipedia:WikiProject Countering systemic bias/Mathematics Related cleanup templates[edit] The template {{globalize}} may be placed to produce The examples and perspective in this article may not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (Learn how and when to remove this template message) The template {{overcoverage}} may be placed to produce The examples and perspective in this article or section might have an extensive bias or disproportional coverage towards one or more specific regions. Please improve this article or discuss the issue on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove this template message) The template {{toofewopinions}} may be placed to produce The examples and perspective in this article may not include all significant viewpoints. Please improve the article or discuss the issue. (Learn how and when to remove this template message) The template {{religion primary}} may be placed to produce This article uncritically uses texts from within a religion or faith system without referring to secondary sources that critically analyze them. Please help improve this article by adding references to reliable secondary sources, with multiple points of view. (Learn how and when to remove this template message) The template {{recentism}} may be placed to produce This article or section appears to be slanted towards recent events. Please try to keep recent events in historical perspective and add more content related to non-recent events. (Learn how and when to remove this template message) When these templates are used they should be accompanied by a brief note on the talk page to outline what exactly you feel needs to be addressed. Members[edit] Please add your name to the members page. We of course encourage all members of WikiProject Countering systemic bias, to also promote their membership to other Wikipedians, by adding the Userbox template to their personal user page. This is fast and easy to do. You only need to add this line at your user page: {{User WikiProject Countering systemic bias}}, and then you will find this wonderful blue userbox displayed: This user is a member of WikiProject Countering systemic bias. If you have specific interests relating to countering systemic bias, feel free to briefly describe them there or on this Wikiproject's talk page so we can get a sense of the strengths of the project. References[edit] ^ Simonite, Tom. "The Decline of Wikipedia". MIT Technology Review. Retrieved 14 April 2014. ^ a b c Cohen, Martin. "Encyclopaedia Idiotica". Times Higher Education (28 August 2008): 26. ^ Stephen Colbert, The Colbert Report, episode 3109, August 21, 2007. ^ Simon Waldman (October 26, 2004). "Who Knows?". Technology. The Guardian. Retrieved July 2, 2015. ^ Brophy-Warren, Jamin. "Oh, that John Locke". The Wall Street Journal (June 16, 2007): P3. ^ Hendren, Johnny "DocEvil" (2007-06-05). "The Art of Wikigroaning". Something Awful. Retrieved 2007-06-17. ^ Brown, Andrew (2007-06-14). "No amount of collaboration will make the sun orbit the Earth". The Guardian. London (June 14, 2007). Retrieved 2010-03-27. ^ Ivor Tossell (2007-06-15). "Duality of Wikipedia". The Globe and Mail. Retrieved 2007-06-20. ^ a b J.P. Kirby (October 20, 2007). The Problem with Wikipedia. J.P.'s Random Ramblings. ^ Volume 55, Nicholson Baker (March 20, 2008) The Charms of Wikipedia – The New York Review of Books Vol. 55, Number 4. ^ Bobbie Johnson, Guardian Newspapers Limited, 2009 ^ Noah, Timothy (2007-02-24). "Evicted from Wikipedia". Slate Magazine. Retrieved 2019-04-09. ^ a b Cassell, Justine (February 4, 2011). "Editing Wars Behind the Scenes". New York Times. ^ a b Noam Cohen, "Define Gender Gap? Look Up Wikipedia's Contributor List," The New York Times. Found at The New York Times, January 31, 2011. ^ "Wikipedia's Women Problem". Nybooks.com. 2013-04-29. Retrieved 2013-11-19. ^ Wikipedia's Sexism Toward Women Novelists ^ Dunn, Gaby (2013-05-01). "Does Sexism Lurk?". Dailydot.com. Retrieved 2013-11-19. ^ Zandt, Deanna. "Yes, Wikipedia is Sexist". Forbes.com. Retrieved 2013-11-19. ^ Spector, P.E., & Fox, S. (2005). The Stressor-Emotion Model of Counterproductive Work Behavior Counterproductive work behavior: Investigations of actors and targets (pp. 151-174). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association; US. ^ Tepper, B.J. (2000). "Consequences of abusive supervision". Academy of Management Journal, 43(2), 178-190. doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/1556375 ^ Rayner, C., & Keashly, L. (2005). Bullying at Work: A Perspective From Britain and North America. In S. Fox & P.E. Spector (Eds.), Counterproductive work behavior: Investigations of actors and targets. (pp. 271-296). Washington, DC, US: American Psychological Association. ^ Andersson, L.M., & Pearson, C.M. (1999). "Tit for tat? The spiraling effect of incivility in the workplace". Academy of Management Review, 74, 452-471. ^ Rospenda, K.M., & Richman, J.A. (2005). Harassment and discrimination. In J. Barling, E.K. Kelloway & M.R. Frone (Eds.), Handbook of work stress (pp. 149-188). Thousand Oaks, California: Sage. ^ Demerouti, E., Bakker, A.B., Nachreiner, F., & Schaufeli, W.B. (2001). The job demands-resources model of burnout. Journal of Applied Psychology, 86(3), 499-512. doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.1037/0021-9010.86.3.499 ^ Schermerhorn. Organizational Behavior. Tenth edition. Chapter eight. See also[edit] Wikipedia:Systemic bias FUTON bias Wikipedia:Translation Wikipedia:WikiProject Countering systemic bias/Global perspective Wikipedia:CSB Collaboration of the Week (inactive) Wikipedia:University of Würzburg survey, 2005 (old) Wikipedia:WikiProject Gender Studies/Countering Systemic Gender Bias (inactive) Wikipedia:Geographic imbalance Wikipedia:WikiProject Countering systemic bias/Research publications/harasssment Wikipedia:Race and ethnicity Further reading[edit] Floating Sheep Collective's report "Geographies of the World's Knowledge" (pdf) is available from Visualizing Data at the Oxford Internet Institute and discusses places and time periods which Wikipedia articles tend to focus on or ignore. Wikipedia edits visualized shows the locations of editors worldwide as they edit on the randomly selected day of May 10, 2011. "Gender Bias in Wikipedia and Britannica" by Joseph Reagle and Lauren Rhue in the International Journal of Communication "WP:Clubhouse? An Exploration of Wikipedia's Gender Imbalance" a conference paper by Lam, Uduwage, Dong, Sen, Musicant, Terveen, and Riedl. (commentary on this from Signpost) "Gender Gap: Recapping some basics about what we're doing" a note by Sue Gardner, the Wikimedia Foundation's executive director "Define Gender Gap? Look Up Wikipedia’s Contributor List" by Noam Cohen in The New York Times External links[edit] Under Reported Stories by Thomson Reuters Foundation Under-Told Stories The Neglected Books Page - www.NeglectedBooks.com: Where forgotten books are remembered v t e WikiProject: Countering systemic bias Project members create new articles and improve neglected ones. Review and improve American-led intervention in Iraq (2014–present) Eastern Europe Central Europe Medical assistant Hoda Barakat Women's rights movement in Iran Roch Marc Christian Kaboré Cultural practice Covance History of East Asia White pride Ryke Geerd Hamer Western painting American exceptionalism American (word) BRIC Rwandan genocide History of HIV/AIDS Moon-eyed people Australia national soccer team Leopard Society Article requests Marcel Météore Mois Benarroch Expand Oscar Pill Sorbian literature Henrique Abranches Ti-Grace Atkinson List of Islamic educational institutions Muntaqim v. Coombe Turbi massacre National Unity Party Álvaro Mutis African Progress Union Southern Aslian languages Surojana Sethabutra Rachel Foster Avery MediaSmarts Update First Ivorian Civil War Cotonou Banjul War in Darfur Stay-at-home dad Ituri conflict Article · Project page · All open tasks Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:WikiProject_Countering_systemic_bias&oldid=945497740" Categories: Active WikiProjects Hidden categories: Project pages with short description WikiProject Countering systemic bias Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Project page Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Deutsch Esperanto ????? Nederlands ?????? / srpski Edit links This page was last edited on 14 March 2020, at 10:50 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
