Wikipedia:Translation - Wikipedia Wikipedia:Translation From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search How to translate pages "Wikipedia:TIE" redirects here. For strong national ties to a topic, see Wikipedia:TIES. For requests for new or changed templates, see Wikipedia:Requested templates. For refactoring talk pages, see Wikipedia:RTP. Shortcut WP:RFT Are you in the right place? For non-English articles already in English Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Pages needing translation into English. To learn about translation of English Wikipedia articles into other languages, see Wikipedia:Translate us To request a translation of an English Wikipedia article into another language, see the corresponding page in the foreign-language Wikipedia project (Hint: You could use the sidebar links in the desktop version of this page). For a tool for cross-wiki translation, see Wikipedia:Content translation tool To learn about translation of foreign-language Wikipedia articles into English, read on. Translation Department Wikipedia:Translation Babel: user templates Translators Quick translation needed Related Projects Featured articles in other languages Meta Translation of the Week v t e Contents 1 Requesting a translation from a foreign language to English 2 Articles needing translation 3 License requirements 4 How to translate 4.1 Avoid machine translations 4.2 Include citations 5 Translation from English to another language 6 Other languages 7 Classroom collaborations 8 Userboxes 9 See also 10 External links Requesting a translation from a foreign language to English Shortcut WP:TRANSLATETOHERE Requesting a translation from a foreign-language Wikipedia into English is easy. If the English article already exists (but a translation would be useful because the article in the foreign language is of higher quality, or includes additional information): simply place a translation template from the category Category:Expand by language Wikipedia templates on the English article page. For example, to request improvement of the English article on Fuerteventura, based on the equivalent article on Spanish Wikipedia, place {{Expand Spanish|Fuerteventura}} on the English article Fuerteventura. If the English article does not yet exist: you can: create a starter article (at least a stub) in English, using the process described at Your first article; once you have created the article, tag it with a translation template, as mentioned above. or add a page request red link in the Requested articles Project section with the proposed title of the article which will contain the translation adding an interwiki link to the foreign-language Wikipedia page(s). Note that fewer people will likely see a request created using this method. or ask a translator directly on their talk page, by taking a look at the list of available translators or the category of available translators. In all cases, articles must meet the relevant notability criteria and other guidelines applicable to articles on the English-language Wikipedia. Each Wikipedia has its own standards, and the acceptance of an article's topic or of any part of its content in one language is no guarantee that it will be accepted in another. Note that this page is not for requesting translations of copyrighted sources outside Wikipedia. It is also not for articles currently in English Wikipedia that are not in English. For that, please see Wikipedia:Pages needing translation into English. Articles needing translation Category:Articles needing translation from foreign-language Wikipedias contains all articles that have been tagged to suggest that they be expanded with content from another language's Wikipedia translated into English. Browse the appropriate language category to find an article you are interested in. Tools like this one can locate articles that may need translation by finding foreign-language articles with no interwiki link to English, but interwiki links to several other languages. A project specifically working to translate key medical articles. Wikipedia:MED/Translation_project License requirements A translation is a derivative work. Wikipedia articles are under a copyleft license that requires attribution to the original source and authors in all derivative works. How to do this is described on Translating from other language Wikimedia projects. How to translate Shortcut WP:HOWTRANS Play media Screencast showing how to use Content Translation Articles on a given subject in different languages are typically edited independently, and need not correspond closely in form, style or content. If portions of an article appear to be low-quality or unverifiable, use your judgment and do not translate those portions. Once you have finished translating, you may ask a proofreader to check the translation. The new, translated article must credit the source article. The recommended way to do this is to do both of the following: (a) Provide in the first edit summary of the target article a statement of your translation, together with an interlanguage link to the source (translated-from) article. Example: Content in this edit is translated from the existing French Wikipedia article at [[:fr:Exact name of French article]]; see its history for attribution. (b) Place the template {{Translated page}} on the target article's talk page. You are not required to import the revision history, but if you wish to do so, ask at Wikipedia:Requests for page importation for the page to either be imported into your userspace or over your translated version of the article. (See also Wikipedia:Copying within Wikipedia, and its section at WP:RIA if you find a translation that failed to provide mandatory copyright attribution.) Avoid being overly influenced by the style of the original. With the exception of quotations, use normal English encyclopedic style, as appropriate for the topic. The English text should be understandable to a wide audience, so – other things being equal – use everyday English expressions rather than jargon or foreign expressions. It may be necessary to add material explaining terms or cultural concepts unfamiliar to English-speaking readers. The Content Translation tool may be used to facilitate the translation process. This tool is currently limited to extended confirmed editors (those with 30 days tenure and at least 500 edits). The community is actively developing a process whereby trusted editors will be able to gain access to this tool. Please see more information at Wikipedia:Content translation tool. Avoid machine translations Shortcut WP:MACHINETRANSLATION Translation takes work. Machine translation almost always produces very low-quality results. Machine translation can have difficulty with individual words or expressions for many reasons, including false friends, false cognates, literal translation, neologisms, slang, idiomatic expressions and other unrecognized compounds, words with multiple meanings, words with specialized meanings in certain knowledge domains different from a common meaning of a word in a more general context, unwarranted translation of proper names, and other reasons. Wikipedia consensus is that an unedited machine translation, left as a Wikipedia article, is worse than nothing. (This is partly because translation templates automatically carry links to machine translations, so readers can easily access machine translations anyway?—?pasting a machine translation into an "article" really achieves nothing). Include citations Include the same sources that the original article used, if they are appropriate. For example, if you're not translating some text in the original article because you think it's irrelevant, then omit the related citations, or find other text in the article that they support. (Sources are valuable.) Do check to see if an English-language citation is available that is the equivalent of the foreign-language citation (an authorized translation, in other words), since that’s easier for readers to verify. If you do find one, you don't need to include the foreign-language citation. Translation from English to another language Translations of an article on English Wikipedia into some other language are covered at Wikipedia:Translate us. Other languages For translations between two non-English languages, see the versions of this page in one or other of those languages – each Wikipedia has its own standards and conventions for such translations. Classroom collaborations Main page: Wikipedia:Student assignments Wikipedia welcomes the involvement of students in article editing. Article translation is particularly well-suited to student involvement. Such efforts provide useful, real-world translation experience for students, who will be motivated by the fact that their work will be seen by thousands of Wikipedia readers. They also benefit Wikipedia readers, who gain access to information about other cultures and peoples. For assistance setting up a classroom translation project, please see Wikipedia:Student assignments. Userboxes {{User Translator}} indicates your willingness to participate in this project through translation, copy editing, or other ways. {{User Translator|es}} produces: - This user is a translator from español to English on Wikipedia:Translation. {{User Translator|hi|proofreader=yes}} produces: - This user is a translator and proofreader from Hindi to English on Wikipedia:Translation. {{User Translator|ar|project=no}} produces: - This user likes to translate articles from Arabic to English. {{User Translator|de|proofreader=yes|project=no}} produces: - This user likes to translate and proofread articles from German to English. {{User Translator|sd|project=no}} produces: - This user likes to translate articles from Sindhi to English. {{User Translator|sd|proofreader=yes|project=no}} produces: - This user likes to translate and proofread articles from Sindhi to English. After putting this template on a userpage, the page will be added to the appropriate subcategory of Category:Available translators in Wikipedia. When the proofreader attribute is set to 'yes', the page will also be added to a subcategory of Category:Available proofreaders in Wikipedia. {{User Translator 2}} works in the same way in the other direction (from English to another language). See also Category:Wikipedia translation templates EASE Guidelines for Authors and Translators of Scientific Articles Category:Multilingual websites (Editors who translate articles between different versions of Wikipedia can use some of these websites for references.) Machine translation Template:Notenglish-section Wikipedia:Basic copyediting, a task commonly following translation Wikipedia:Pages needing translation into English, for pages on the English Wikipedia that will shortly be deleted unless translated Wikipedia:Translating German Wikipedia Wikipedia:Translators available Wikipedia:WikiProject Cross-language Editing and Learning Exchange Wikipedia:WikiProject Translation Studies Wikipedia:WikiProject Intertranswiki, translating content from non-English Wikipedias External links Wiktionary:Translations Meta:Translation of the week MediaWiki translation on translatewiki.net, a localisation platform for translation communities, language communities, and open source projects v t e Wikipedia community For a listing of current collaborations, tasks, and news, see the Community portal. For a listing of ongoing discussions and current requests, see the Dashboard. General community topics Administration News The Signpost Goings-on In the media Meetups Mailing lists Wikipedians Statistics Milestones The Wikipedia Library Centralized discussion Village pump Idea lab Policy Proposals Technical Miscellaneous Contents and grading Requested articles Most-wanted articles Images needing articles Articles needing images Articles for creation WP:AFC/R Creation Help Vital articles Today's articles for improvement Peer review Good article nominations Featured article candidates Lists Pictures Topics Article translation Pages Main Page Errors WikiProjects and collaborations Directory Culture and the arts Geographical History and society Science, technology and engineering Wikipedia assistance and tasks Patrols Recent changes Counter-Vandalism Unit Version 1.0 Editorial Team Accessibility Organizations category Awards and feedback Reward board Contests A nice cup of tea and a sit down Charitableness WikiLove Compliment before criticism Kindness Campaign Thanks! Maintenance tasks Task Center Open tasks Backlog Category Admin category Edit requests Category Database reports Category tracker Dusty articles Special pages New pages Recent changes Controversial issues Administrators and noticeboards Administrators' noticeboard Incidents Edit warring Vandalism Admin dashboard Admin requests Closure Page protection User permissions Sockpuppets Open proxies Revision deletion Oversight Request Usernames Changing Title blacklist OTRS Bureaucrats' Requests for adminship and bureaucratship Arbitration Committee Requests Enforcement Content dispute resolution Editor assistance Requests for comment Third opinion Dispute resolution noticeboard Biographies of living persons Conflict of interest External links Fringe theories Neutral point of view No original research Reliable sources Other noticeboards and assistance Regional notice boards Requests for help Category Asking questions Teahouse Help desk Reference desk Adopt-a-user Copyright assistance Copyright investigations Text problems Media questions Resource requests Mergers History mergers Moves Page importation Spam Blacklist Whitelist Bots Education New pages patrol General sanctions Editor sanctions Long-term abuse Deletion discussions Guide Admin Today Articles Templates Files Categories Redirects Miscellany Speedy Proposed BLP Books Review Undeletion Arguments to avoid Arguments to make Article Rescue Elections and votings Requests for comment (meta) Wikimedia Foundation elections WP Democracy Voting is not evil Milestones Directories and summaries Departments Edit summary legend Editor's index Essays FAQs Glossary Abbreviations Help Manual of Style Simplified Rules Five pillars Policies Guidelines Shortcuts Templates Citation templates Tips Today Tools Wikis Wiki markup Media Category Templates Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Translation&oldid=946601543" Categories: Wikipedia translation Hidden categories: Project pages with short description Wikipedia move-protected project pages Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Project page Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item In other projects MediaWiki Wikispecies Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans Alemannisch ??????? ??????? Az?rbaycanca ????? ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)? ??????? ????????? Català Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto ????? Galego ??? ?????? Hornjoserbsce Bahasa Indonesia IsiZulu Íslenska Italiano ????? Jawa Latina Magyar ?????????? Bahasa Melayu Minangkabau Mirandés Nederlands ??? Norsk nynorsk ?????? Polski Português Q?r?mtatarca Român? Romani ?hib ??????? ????? Sunda Svenska Tagalog ???????/tatarça ?????? Türkçe ?????????? Vèneto Ti?ng Vi?t ?? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 21 March 2020, at 06:01 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Thomas@Emil.in
