Wikimedia movement - Wikipedia Wikimedia movement From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Social movement around Wikimedia including content publications, Wikimedia organizations, and independent editors "Wikimedia community" redirects here. It is not to be confused with Wikipedia community. "Wikimedia" redirects here. It is not to be confused with MediaWiki, Wikimedia Foundation, or Wikipedia. This article may rely excessively on sources too closely associated with the subject, potentially preventing the article from being verifiable and neutral. Please help improve it by replacing them with more appropriate citations to reliable, independent, third-party sources. (August 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) ‹ The template Infobox organization is being considered for merging. › Wikimedia movement 2012 group photograph Type Anarchy of individual contributors, chapters, user groups and thematic organizations Focus Free, open-content, wiki-based Internet projects Area served Worldwide Services Authoring and editing Wikipedia, Wiktionary, Wikimedia Commons, Wikidata, Wikiquote, Wikibooks, Wikisource, Wikispecies, Wikinews, Wikiversity, and Wikivoyage Developing MediaWiki software Website meta.wikimedia.org The Wikimedia movement, or simply Wikimedia, is the global community of contributors to Wikimedia Foundation projects. The movement was created around Wikipedia's community, and has since expanded to the other Wikimedia projects, including the commons projects Wikimedia Commons and Wikidata, and volunteer software engineers and developers contributing to MediaWiki. These volunteers are supported by numerous organizations around the world, including the Wikimedia Foundation, related chapters, thematic organizations, and user groups. The name "Wikimedia", a compound of wiki and media, was coined by American author Sheldon Rampton in a post to the English mailing list in March 2003,[1] three months after Wiktionary became the second wiki-based project hosted on Jimmy Wales' platform, and three months before the Wikimedia Foundation was announced and incorporated.[2][3] "Wikimedia" may also refer to the Wikimedia projects. Contents 1 Wikipedia community 2 Projects 3 Organizations 3.1 Wikimedia Foundation 3.2 Chapters 3.3 Thematic organizations 3.4 User groups 4 See also 5 References 6 External links Wikipedia community[edit] Main article: Wikipedia community The Wikipedia community is the community of contributors of the online encyclopedia Wikipedia. It consists of editors (or contributors) and administrators, known as admins. The Arbitration Committee is a panel of editors responsible for conducting arbitration to resolve serious disputes between editors of the encyclopedia. The committee has the authority to impose binding sanctions, and also determines which users have access to special permissions. Projects[edit] Further information: Wikimedia Foundation § Projects and initiatives Wikimedia projects include: Wikipedia, a web-based encyclopedia Wiktionary, a dictionary Wikibooks, educational textbooks Wikinews, news articles Wikiquote, a collection of quotations Wikisource, a library of source texts and documents Wikiversity, educational material Wikivoyage, a travel guide Wikispecies, a taxonomic catalogue of species Wikimedia Commons, a data repository of media like images, videos and sounds. These files are accessible by all the other projects mentioned above, hence the name "Commons." Wikidata, a common source of data, also accessible by the other projects Organizations[edit] Wikimedia Foundation[edit] Main article: Wikimedia Foundation The Wikimedia movement, an overview Mindmap of the Wikimedia movement (2019)   Wikimedia chapters (blue)   Wikimedia user groups with a geographic focus (green) The Wikimedia Foundation (WMF) is an American non-profit[4] and charitable organization headquartered in San Francisco, California. It owns the domain names and operates most of the movement's websites, like Wikipedia, the online encyclopedia, as well as Wikimedia Commons. The WMF was founded in 2003 by Jimmy Wales as a way to fund Wikipedia and its sister projects through non-profit means. Its purpose is "... to empower and engage people around the world to collect and develop educational content under a free license or in the public domain, and to disseminate it effectively and globally."[2][5][6] According to the WMF's 2015 financial statements, in 2015 the WMF had a budget of US$72 million, spending US$52 million on its operation, and increasing its reserves to US$82 million.[7] WMF is primarily funded by donations with the average donation being $15.[8] Chapters[edit] See also: List of Wikimedia chapters Chapters are organizations that support Wikimedia projects in specified geographical regions, mostly countries. There are currently 38 chapters.[9] Wikimedia Deutschland (WMDE) is the largest chapter, with a total budget of €20 million. WMDE allocates approximately €1 million to support the corporation responsible for distributing donations, and €4 million for transfer to the WMF.[10][11] To have the same procedure, every chapter follows the same process and requests its yearly budget at the funds dissemination committee. The foundation as internet domain owner of the project pages requests a share of the donations via the website in a country (e.g., for Germany, Switzerland), or pays a chapter the agreed amount (other chapters). A total of under 4 Mio USD is distributed via this way to chapters and thematic organizations.[12] The legal base is a "Chapters Agreement" with the foundation.[13] Thematic organizations[edit] Thematic organizations are founded to support Wikimedia projects in a subject focal area; there are currently two such organizations.[12][14] They are governed by the "Wikimedia Thematic Organization Agreement".[15] User groups[edit] User groups have less formal requirements than chapters and thematic organizations. They support and promote the Wikimedia projects locally or on a specific theme, topic, subject, or issue. Once they are recognized by the Affiliations Committee, they enter into a "User Groups Agreement and Code of Conduct" with the foundation.[citation needed] As of May 2019, there are 108 user groups.[16] See also[edit] Wikipedia:Meta References[edit] ^ Rampton, Sheldon (March 16, 2003). "Wikipedia English mailing list message". Archived from the original on November 1, 2005. Retrieved July 11, 2017. ^ a b Jimmy Wales (June 20, 2003). "Announcing Wikimedia Foundation". mail:wikipedia-l. Archived from the original on March 30, 2013. Retrieved November 26, 2012. ^ Florida Department of State, Division of Corporations. Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. Record Archived 2016-06-18 at the Wayback Machine and Electronic Articles of Incorporation for Wikimedia Foundation Archived 2016-06-18 at the Wayback Machine, filed June 20, 2003 ^ "GuideStar - WIKIMEDIA FOUNDATION, INC". ^ Neate, Rupert (October 7, 2008). "Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales goes bananas". The Daily Telegraph. Archived from the original on November 10, 2008. Retrieved October 25, 2009. The encyclopedia's huge fan base became such a drain on Bomis's resources that Mr. Wales, and co-founder Larry Sanger, thought of a radical new funding model – charity. ^ "Bylaws". Wikimedia Foundation. Archived from the original on 2017-02-25. Retrieved 2016-09-24. ^ "WIKIMEDIA FOUNDATION, INC. Financial Statements, June 30, 2015 and 2014" (PDF). Upload.wikimedia.org. Archived (PDF) from the original on January 12, 2016. Retrieved April 20, 2016. ^ "Frequently Asked Questions". WikiMedia Foundation. Archived from the original on 22 November 2013. Retrieved 23 September 2017. ^ "Wikimedia chapters". meta.wikimedia.org. Archived from the original on 2016-09-17. Retrieved 2019-05-03. ^ "Wikimedia chapters - Meta". Meta.wikimedia.org. Archived from the original on 2016-09-17. Retrieved 2016-09-24. ^ "Jahresplan 2016 – Wikimedia Deutschland". Wikimedia.de (in German). 2015-11-28. Archived from the original on 2019-07-05. Retrieved 2016-09-24. ^ a b "Template:APG navigation - Meta". Meta.wikimedia.org. 2016-09-05. Archived from the original on 2016-08-07. Retrieved 2016-09-24. ^ "Wikimedia chapters/Creation guide - Meta". Meta.wikimedia.org. Archived from the original on 2016-11-30. Retrieved 2016-09-24. ^ "Wikimedia movement affiliates/Frequently asked questions - Meta". Meta.wikimedia.org. 2016-09-15. Archived from the original on 2015-12-08. Retrieved 2016-09-24. ^ "Wikimedia Thematic Organization Agreement". meta.wikimedia.org. Archived from the original on 2019-05-03. Retrieved 2019-05-03. ^ "Wikimedia user groups". Meta.wikimedia.org. 2018-11-07. Archived from the original on 2018-11-06. Retrieved 2018-11-07. External links[edit] Wikimedia home page Wikimedia movement structure description @ Meta-Wiki v t e Wikimedia Foundation People Current Aaron Halfaker James Heilman Dariusz Jemielniak Katherine Maher Jimmy Wales Past Hampton Catlin Danese Cooper Bishakha Datta Florence Devouard Oscar van Dillen Sue Gardner Arnnon Geshuri Mike Godwin Guy Kawasaki Erik Möller Lila Tretikov Luis Villa Patricio Lorente Content projects Wikipedia List of Wikipedias Wiktionary List of Wiktionaries Wikimedia Commons Wikidata Wikiquote Wikibooks Wikisource Wikispecies Wikinews Wikiversity Wikivoyage Other Wikimedia movement List of Wikimedia chapters Wikimania Wiki Indaba MediaWiki Litigation Wikimedia v. NSA Knowledge Engine Related The Signpost Wikipedia Monument v t e Wikipedia Overview (Outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing Criticism gender bias ideological bias racial bias Deletionism and inclusionism MediaWiki Notability Reliability Vandalism Predictions of the project's end Community Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Citation needed Edit-a-thon "Ignore all rules" policy List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikipedian in residence WikiConference North America Wikimania WikiProject Women in Red People Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Erik Möller Ira Brad Matetsky Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales Wikipedians Wikimedian of the Year History Bomis Logo Controversies U.S. Congressional staff edits Essjay controversy Seigenthaler biography incident Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Italian Wikipedia blackout English Wikipedia blackout Hillsborough Wikipedia posts MyWikiBiz Lsjbot VisualEditor Art+Feminism #1Lib1Ref Honors 2008 Quadriga award Wikipedia Monument 2015 Erasmus Prize 2015 Princess of Asturias Award References and analysis Cultural Bibliography Films Academic studies Listen to Wikipedia Wiki-Watch Wikipediocracy WikiScanner Wikipedia Review Mobile access Apps QRpedia Wapedia WikiNodes Wikipedia Zero Wikiwand Content use Books LLC Boundless (company) DBpedia Deletionpedia Kiwix WikiReader Science information Health information Similar projects Interpedia Nupedia Citizendium Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Everipedia Veropedia List of online encyclopedias List of wikis Related Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs Print Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) 274301 Wikipedia Viola wikipedia List Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikimedia_movement&oldid=944775590" Categories: Wikimedia Wikimedia people Social movements Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links CS1 German-language sources (de) Articles with short description Articles with long short description Articles lacking reliable references from August 2018 All articles lacking reliable references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from May 2018 Articles containing Spanish-language text Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Meta-Wiki Wikibooks Wikidata Wikinews Wikiversity Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? Boarisch Brezhoneg Deutsch Español ????? Français G?k?y? ??????? Kaszëbsczi ??? ????? ?????? Português ??????? Scots ??? ?????????? ???? Winaray Edit links This page was last edited on 9 March 2020, at 21:23 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
Harold@Jesse.gov
