Wireless Application Protocol - Wikipedia Wireless Application Protocol From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Technical standard for accessing information over a mobile wireless network This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article contains weasel words: vague phrasing that often accompanies biased or unverifiable information. Such statements should be clarified or removed. (October 2015) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Wireless Application Protocol" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (April 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) is a technical standard for accessing information over a mobile wireless network. A WAP browser is a web browser for mobile devices such as mobile phones that uses the protocol. Introduced in 1999,[1] WAP achieved some popularity in the early 2000s, but by the 2010s it had been largely superseded by more modern standards. Most modern handset internet browsers now fully support HTML, so they do not need to use WAP markup for web page compatibility, and therefore, most are no longer able to render and display pages written in WML, WAP's markup language.[2] Before the introduction of WAP, mobile service providers had limited opportunities to offer interactive data services, but needed interactivity to support Internet and Web applications such as email, stock prices, news and sports headlines. The Japanese i-mode system offered another major competing wireless data protocol. Contents 1 Technical specifications 1.1 WAP protocol stack 1.2 WAP Push 1.3 WAP 2.0 1.4 MMS 2 History 2.1 Europe 2.2 Asia 2.3 USA 3 Criticism 4 Protocol design lessons from WAP 5 See also 6 References 7 External links Technical specifications[edit] OSI model by layer 7.  Application layer NNTP SIP SSI DNS FTP Gopher HTTP NFS NTP SMPP SMTP SNMP Telnet DHCP Netconf more.... 6.  Presentation layer MIME XDR ASN.1 5.  Session layer Named pipe NetBIOS SAP PPTP RTP SOCKS SPDY 4.  Transport layer TCP UDP SCTP DCCP SPX 3.  Network layer IP IPv4 IPv6 ICMP IPsec IGMP IPX AppleTalk X.25 PLP 2.  Data link layer ATM ARP IS-IS SDLC HDLC CSLIP SLIP GFP PLIP IEEE 802.2 LLC MAC L2TP IEEE 802.3 Frame Relay ITU-T G.hn DLL PPP X.25 LAPB Q.922 LAPF 1.  Physical layer EIA/TIA-232 EIA/TIA-449 ITU-T V-Series I.430 I.431 PDH SONET/SDH PON OTN DSL IEEE 802.3 IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.15 IEEE 802.16 IEEE 1394 ITU-T G.hn PHY USB Bluetooth RS-232 RS-449 v t e WAP protocol stack[edit] The WAP standard described a protocol suite or stack[3] allowing the interoperability of WAP equipment and software with different network technologies, such as GSM and IS-95 (also known as CDMA). Wireless Application Environment (WAE) WAP protocol suite Wireless Session Protocol (WSP) Wireless Transaction Protocol (WTP) Wireless Transport Layer Security (WTLS) Wireless Datagram Protocol (WDP) *** Any wireless data network *** The bottom-most protocol in the suite, the Wireless Datagram Protocol (WDP), functions as an adaptation layer that makes every data network look a bit like UDP to the upper layers by providing unreliable transport of data with two 16-bit port numbers (origin and destination). All the upper layers view WDP as one and the same protocol, which has several "technical realizations" on top of other "data bearers" such as SMS, USSD, etc. On native IP bearers such as GPRS, UMTS packet-radio service, or PPP on top of a circuit-switched data connection, WDP is in fact exactly UDP. WTLS, an optional layer, provides a public-key cryptography-based security mechanism similar to TLS. WTP provides transaction support (reliable request/response) adapted to the wireless world. WTP supports more effectively than TCP the problem of packet loss, which occurs commonly in 2G wireless technologies in most radio conditions, but is misinterpreted by TCP as network congestion. This protocol suite allows a terminal to transmit requests that have an HTTP or HTTPS equivalent to a WAP gateway; the gateway translates requests into plain HTTP. The Wireless Application Environment (WAE) space defines application-specific markup languages. For WAP version 1.X, the primary language of the WAE is Wireless Markup Language (WML). In WAP 2.0, the primary markup language is XHTML Mobile Profile. WAP Push[edit] WAP Push process WAP Push was incorporated into the specification to allow the WAP content to be pushed to the mobile handset with minimal user intervention. A WAP Push is basically a specially encoded message which includes a link to a WAP address.[4] WAP Push was specified on top of Wireless Datagram Protocol (WDP); as such, it can be delivered over any WDP-supported bearer, such as GPRS or SMS.[5] Most GSM networks have a wide range of modified processors, but GPRS activation from the network is not generally supported, so WAP Push messages have to be delivered on top of the SMS bearer. On receiving a WAP Push, a WAP 1.2 (or later) -enabled handset will automatically give the user the option to access the WAP content. This is also known as WAP Push SI (Service Indication).[5] A variant, known as WAP Push SL (Service Loading), directly opens the browser to display the WAP content, without user interaction. Since this behaviour raises security concerns, some handsets handle WAP Push SL messages in the same way as SI, by providing user interaction. The network entity that processes WAP Pushes and delivers them over an IP or SMS Bearer is known as a Push Proxy Gateway (PPG).[5] WAP 2.0[edit] A re-engineered 2.0 version was released in 2002. It uses a cut-down version of XHTML with end-to-end HTTP, dropping the gateway and custom protocol suite used to communicate with it. A WAP gateway can be used in conjunction with WAP 2.0; however, in this scenario, it is used as a standard proxy server. The WAP gateway's role would then shift from one of translation to adding additional information to each request. This would be configured by the operator and could include telephone numbers, location, billing information, and handset information. Mobile devices process XHTML Mobile Profile (XHTML MP), the markup language defined in WAP 2.0. It is a subset of XHTML and a superset of XHTML Basic. A version of Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) called WAP CSS is supported by XHTML MP. MMS[edit] Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS) is a combination of WAP and SMS allowing for sending of picture messages. History[edit] The WAP Forum was founded in 1998 by Ericsson, Motorola, Nokia and Unwired Planet.[6] It aimed primarily to bring together the various wireless technologies in a standardised protocol.[7] In 2002 the WAP Forum was consolidated (along with many other forums of the industry) into Open Mobile Alliance (OMA).[8] Europe[edit] The first company to launch a WAP site was Dutch mobile phone operator Telfort BV in October 1999. The site was developed as a side project by Christopher Bee and Euan McLeod and launched with the debut of the Nokia 7110. Marketers hyped WAP at the time of its introduction,[9] leading users to expect WAP to have the performance of fixed (non-mobile) Internet access. BT Cellnet, one of the UK telecoms, ran an advertising campaign depicting a cartoon WAP user surfing through a Neuromancer-like "information space".[10] In terms of speed, ease of use, appearance and interoperability, the reality fell far short of expectations when the first handsets became available in 1999.[11][12] This led to the wide usage of sardonic phrases such as "Worthless Application Protocol",[13] "Wait And Pay",[14] and WAPlash.[15] Between 2003 and 2004 WAP made a stronger resurgence with the introduction of wireless services (such as Vodafone Live!, T-Mobile T-Zones and other easily accessible services). Operator revenues were generated by transfer of GPRS and UMTS data, which is a different business model than that used by the traditional Web sites and ISPs. According to the Mobile Data Association, WAP traffic in the UK doubled from 2003 to 2004.[16] By the year 2013, WAP use had largely disappeared. Most major companies and websites have since retired from the use of WAP and it has not been a mainstream technology for web on mobile for a number of years.[citation needed] Most modern handset internet browsers now support full HTML, CSS, and most of JavaScript, and do not need to use any kind of WAP markup for webpage compatibility. The list of handsets supporting HTML is extensive, and includes all Android handsets, all versions of the iPhone handset, all Blackberry devices, all devices running Windows Phone, and many Nokia handsets. Asia[edit] WAP saw major success in Japan. While the largest operator NTT DoCoMo did not use WAP in favor of its in-house system i-mode, rival operators KDDI (au) and SoftBank Mobile (previously Vodafone Japan) both successfully deployed WAP technology. In particular, J-Phone's Sha-Mail picture mail and Java (JSCL) services, as well as (au)'s chakuuta/chakumovie (ringtone song/ringtone movie) services were based on WAP. Like in Europe, WAP and i-mode usage declined in the 2010s as HTML-capable smartphones became popular in Japan. USA[edit] The adoption of WAP in the US suffered because many cell phone providers required separate activation and additional fees for data support, and also because telecommunications companies sought to limit data access to only approved data providers operating under license of the signal carrier.[citation needed] In recognition of the problem, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) issued an order on 31 July 2007 which mandated that licensees of the 22-megahertz wide "Upper 700 MHz C Block" spectrum would have to implement a wireless platform which allows customers, device manufacturers, third-party application developers, and others to use any device or application of their choice when operating on this particular licensed network band.[17][18] Criticism[edit] Commentators criticized several aspects of Wireless Markup Language (WML) and WAP. Technical criticisms include: The idiosyncratic WML language: WML cut users off from the conventional HTML Web, leaving only native WAP content and Web-to-WAP proxi-content available to WAP users. However, others argue[who?] that technology at that stage would simply not have been able to give access to anything but custom-designed content which was the sole purpose of WAP and its simple, reduced complexity interface as the citizens of many nations are not connected to the web at the present time and have to use government funded and controlled portals to WAP and similar non-complex services. Under-specification of terminal requirements: The early WAP standards included many optional features and under-specified requirements, which meant that compliant devices would not necessarily interoperate properly. This resulted in great variability in the actual behavior of phones, principally because WAP-service implementers and mobile-phone manufacturers did not[citation needed] obtain a copy of the standards or the correct hardware and the standard software modules. As an example, some phone models would not accept a page more than 1 Kb in size; others would downright crash. The user interface of devices was also underspecified: as an example, accesskeys (e.g., the ability to press '4' to access directly the fourth link in a list) were variously implemented depending on phone models (sometimes with the accesskey number automatically displayed by the browser next to the link, sometimes without it, and sometimes accesskeys were not implemented at all). Constrained user interface capabilities: Terminals with small black-and-white screens and few buttons, like the early WAP terminals, face difficulties in presenting a lot of information to their user, which compounded the other problems: one would have had to be extra careful in designing the user interface on such a resource-constrained device which was the real concept of WAP. Lack of good authoring tools: The problems above might have succumbed in the face of a WML authoring tool that would have allowed content providers to easily publish content that would interoperate flawlessly with many models, adapting the pages presented to the User-Agent type. However, the development kits which existed did not provide such a general capability. Developing for the web was easy: with a text editor and a web browser, anybody could get started, thanks also to the forgiving nature of most desktop browser rendering engines. By contrast, the stringent requirements of the WML specifications, the variability in terminals, and the demands of testing on various wireless terminals, along with the lack of widely available desktop authoring and emulation tools, considerably lengthened the time required to complete most projects. As of 2009[update], however, with many mobile devices supporting XHTML, and programs such as Adobe Go Live and Dreamweaver offering improved web-authoring tools, it is becoming easier to create content, accessible by many new devices. Lack of user agent profiling tools: It quickly became nearly impossible for web hosts to determine if a request came from a mobile device, or from a larger more capable device. No useful profiling or database of device capabilities were built into the specifications in the unauthorized non-compliant products.[citation needed] Other criticisms address the wireless carriers' particular implementations of WAP: Neglect of content providers: Some wireless carriers had assumed a "build it and they will come" strategy, meaning that they would just provide the transport of data as well as the terminals, and then wait for content providers to publish their services on the Internet and make their investment in WAP useful. However, content providers received little help or incentive to go through the complicated route of development. Others, notably in Japan (cf. below), had a more thorough dialogue with their content-provider community, which was then replicated in modern, more successful WAP services such as i-mode in Japan or the Gallery service in France. Lack of openness: Many wireless carriers sold their WAP services as "open", in that they allowed users to reach any service expressed in WML and published on the Internet. However, they also made sure that the first page that clients accessed was their own "wireless portal", which they controlled very closely. Some carriers also turned off editing or accessing the address bar in the device's browser. To facilitate users wanting to go off deck, an address bar on a form on a page linked off the hard coded home page was provided. It makes it easier for carriers to implement filtering of off deck WML sites by URLs or to disable the address bar in the future if the carrier decides to switch all users to a walled garden model. Given the difficulty in typing up fully qualified URLs on a phone keyboard, most users would give up going "off portal" or out of the walled garden; by not letting third parties put their own entries on the operators' wireless portal, some[who?] contend that operators cut themselves off from a valuable opportunity. On the other hand, some operators[which?] argue that their customers would have wanted them to manage the experience and, on such a constrained device, avoid giving access to too many services.[citation needed] Protocol design lessons from WAP[edit] The original WAP model provided a simple platform for access to web-like WML services and e-mail using mobile phones in Europe and the SE Asian regions. In 2009 it continued to have a considerable user base. The later versions of WAP, primarily targeting the United States market, were designed[by whom?] for a different requirement - to enable full web XHTML access using mobile devices with a higher specification and cost, and with a higher degree of software complexity. Considerable discussion has addressed the question whether the WAP protocol design was appropriate. Some[who?] have suggested that the bandwidth-sparing simple interface of Gopher would be a better match for mobile phones and Personal digital assistants (PDAs).[19] The initial design of WAP specifically aimed at protocol independence across a range of different protocols (SMS, IP over PPP over a circuit switched bearer, IP over GPRS, etc.). This has led to a protocol considerably more complex than an approach directly over IP might have caused. Most controversial, especially for many from the IP side, was the design of WAP over IP. WAP's transmission layer protocol, WTP, uses its own retransmission mechanisms over UDP to attempt to solve the problem of the inadequacy of TCP over high-packet-loss networks.[citation needed] See also[edit] .mobi i-mode Microbrowser Mobile development Mobile web RuBee WAP Identity Module Wireless Internet Protocol Wireless transaction protocol WURFL Wikipedia access via WAP References[edit] ^ Sharma, Chetan; Nakamura, Yasuhisa (2003-11-20). Wireless Data Services: Technologies, Business Models and Global Markets. Cambridge University Press. p. 194. ISBN 978-0-521-82843-7. ^ Team Digit (Jan 2006). "Fast Track to Mobile Telephony". Internet Archive. Jasubhai Digital Media. Archived from the original (text) on 8 June 2014. Retrieved 1 March 2017. ^ Krishnaswamy, Sankara. "Wireless Communication Methodologies & Wireless Application Protocol" (PDF). ^ MX Telecom: WAP Push. ^ a b c Openwave: WAP Push Technology Overview. ^ Nokia Press Release Jan 8, 1998: Ericsson, Motorola, Nokia and Unwired Planet establish Wireless Application Protocol Forum Ltd. ^ "A brief History of WAP". HCI blog. December 8, 2004. Retrieved August 5, 2011. ^ "About OMA SpecWorks - OMA SpecWorks". www.openmobilealliance.org. ^ Will Wap's call go unanswered? vnunet.com, 2 June 2000 ^ Silicon.com: BT Cellnet rapped over 'misleading' WAP ads Published 3 November 2000, retrieved 17 September 2008 Archived July 24, 2008, at the Wayback Machine ^ http://press.nokia.com/PR/199902/777256_5.html Nokia 7110 Press Release ^ http://www.filibeto.org/mobile/firmware.html Nokia 7110 first public firmware revision date ^ "The Globe and Mail: "Survivor's guide to wireless wonkery", 23 September 2005". theglobeandmail.com. ^ IT Web: "A RIVR runs through it", 14 November 2000 ^ "WAPlash". Retrieved 29 May 2014. ^ "News, Tips, and Advice for Technology Professionals". TechRepublic. ^ U.S. Federal Communications Commission."FCC Revises 700 MHz Rules To Advance Interoperable Public Safety Communications And Promote Wireless Broadband Deployment", July 31, 2007. Accessed October 8, 2007. ^ Alternate link to "FCC Revises 700 MHz Rules To Advance Interoperable Public Safety Communications And Promote Wireless Broadband Deployment" ^ "Gopher: Underground Technology". wired.com. External links[edit] Open Mobile Alliance OMA – Wireless Application Protocol Downloads (specification documents in PDF format) v t e Mobile phones General Features GSM services History Operating system Security Phone cloning Telephony airplane mode Text messaging SMS MMS RCS Spam Tracking Web browsing HTML5 Software Apps Development Distribution Management Cloud computing Commerce Banking Marketing advertising campaigns Payments contactless donating Ticketing Content Blogging Email Gambling Gaming Health Instant messaging Learning Music News Search local Social address book Television Culture Charms Comics Dating Japanese culture Novels Ringtones silent mode Selfie Txtspk Wallpaper Devices Manufacturers 3D phone Camera phone Car phone Feature phone Projector phone Satellite phone Smartphone Form factors Bar Flip Phablet Slider Smartwatch Smartphones Android devices rooting BlackBerry 10 iPhone iOS jailbreaking Open-source mobile phones Symbian devices Windows Phone devices Environment and health Overuse and relation to mental health BlackBerry thumb Driving safety Electronic waste External power supply Phantom vibration syndrome Radiation and health Recycling Law Carrier IQ Use restrictions while driving Legality of recording by civilians Photography and the law Telephone tapping Texting while driving Mobile phones in prison Networking Channel capacity Frequencies Multi-band Network operator list Roaming Signal SIM dual SIM SIM lock Standards comparison Tethering VoIP WAP XHTML-MP Generations 0G 1G 2G 3G adoption 3.5G 4G 4.5G 5G v t e Standards of Open Mobile Alliance Standards FUMO MMS OMA BCAST OMA CP OMA DM OMA DRM OMA DS OMA IMPS / Wireless Village OMA LWM2M OMA PoC OMA Presence SIMPLE OMA SE WAP WBMP WBXML WML WMLScript WSP WTP XHTML Mobile Profile MLP SCOMO This article is based on material taken from the Free On-line Dictionary of Computing prior to 1 November 2008 and incorporated under the "relicensing" terms of the GFDL, version 1.3 or later. Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wireless_Application_Protocol&oldid=946942015" Categories: Open Mobile Alliance standards Internet protocols Mobile telecommunications standards Wireless Application Protocol Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Articles with weasel words from October 2015 Articles needing additional references from April 2011 All articles needing additional references Articles with multiple maintenance issues All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from August 2011 All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from June 2010 Articles with unsourced statements from October 2009 Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2009 All articles containing potentially dated statements Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from October 2009 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? Az?rbaycanca ????? Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français ??? ?????? Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? ??????? Latviešu Lietuvi? Lumbaart Magyar Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål Piemontèis Polski Português ??????? Simple English Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina Suomi Svenska ?????? Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 23 March 2020, at 09:39 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
