Yesha Council - Wikipedia Yesha Council From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article or section appears to be slanted towards recent events. Please try to keep recent events in historical perspective and add more content related to non-recent events. (September 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) ‹ The template Infobox organization is being considered for merging. › Yesha Council ????? ??"? Named after Yesha Region Judea and Samaria Area Affiliations Amana Website www.myesha.org.il The Yesha Council (Hebrew: ????? ??"??, Mo'etzet Yesha, which is the Hebrew acronym for Yehuda Shomron, Aza, lit. "Judea Samaria and Gaza Council") is an umbrella organization of municipal councils of Jewish settlements in the West Bank (and formerly in the Gaza Strip), known by the Hebrew acronym Yesha. The Chairman of the Yesha Council is Dani Dayan, elected in July 2007. Dayan is a secular businessman, resident of Maale Shomron. Contents 1 History 2 Activism 2.1 Protest Campaign 2.2 Rejection of Violence 2.3 Wikipedia editing course 3 See also 4 References 5 External links History The Council was founded in the 1970s as the successor to Gush Emunim ("Bloc of the Faithful"), an organization formed to promote Jewish settlement in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, which they regarded as the return of Jews to their Biblical homeland. The Council consists of 25 democratically elected mayors and ten community leaders[citation needed], representing municipalities with a combined Jewish population of around 225,000. Its resettlement policy was criticised by the Sason Report.[1] Its mandate is to assist Jewish settlements in every possible way. The Council works to improve security by, for instance, arranging the acquisition of bullet-proof ambulances and buses. The Council works with the Israeli government to provide roads, electricity, and water to the settlements. In addition to municipal and security issues, the Council serves as the political arm of the Jewish residents of Yesha. The Council lobbies for their interests with the Knesset and the government. The Council carries on public relations campaigns for the settlements and has organized several large public protests. Activism Protest Campaign In 2005 the Council led the protest campaign against the disengagement plan with peaceful mass protests: the human chain of 130,000, the Kfar Maimon march of 50,000, the Kotel rally of 70,000, and the Tel Aviv rally of 200,000. The council was praised by centrists for refraining from the use of violence—although some right-wing activists did resort to violence. It was also criticized by the right for failing to prevent the disengagement. Rejection of Violence The council chairman Dani Dayan said that settlers must not use violence to advance their means. He said that such actions were "morally bankrupt" and only serve to "hinder the settlers' struggle."[2] Wikipedia editing course This article may lend undue weight to certain ideas, incidents, or controversies. Please help improve it by rewriting it in a balanced fashion that contextualizes different points of view. (July 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) On 3 August 2010, it was reported that the Yesha Council together with My Israel, a network of online pro-Israel activists committed to spreading Zionism online, were organizing people at a workshop in Jerusalem to teach them how to edit Wikipedia articles in a pro-Israeli way.[3][4][5] Around 50 people took part in the course.[4] "We don't want to change Wikipedia or turn it into a propaganda arm," commented Naftali Bennett, director of the Yesha Council. "We just want to show the other side. People think that Israelis are mean, evil people who only want to hurt Arabs all day."[6] "The idea is not to make Wikipedia rightist but for it to include our point of view," he said in another interview.[4] The project organiser, Ayelet Shaked was interviewed on Arutz Sheva Radio. She emphasized that the information has to be reliable and meet Wikipedia rules. She cited some examples such as the use of the term "occupation" in Wikipedia entries, as well as in the editing of entries that link Israel with Judea and Samaria and Jewish history.[3] A course participant explained that the course is not a "Zionist conspiracy to take over Wikipedia"; rather, it is an attempt to balance information about disputed issues presented in the online encyclopedia. [T]he goal of this workshop was to train a number of pro-Israelis how to edit Wikipedia so that more people could present the Israeli side of things, and thus the content would be more balanced... Wikipedia is meant to be a fair and balanced source, and it is that way by having people from all across the spectrum contributing to the content.[7] Another participant was not positive about the publication of the initiative, warning that going public in past occasions has had a bad effect, and recommending that the initiative would be better taken underground.[5] Following the course announcement, the head of Palestinian Journalists Syndicate said there were plans to set up a counter group to ensure the Palestinian view is presented online as the "next regional war will be [a] media war."[6] In 2011, Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales stated in retrospect about the course organized by Israel Sheli, "we saw absolutely no impact from that effort whatsoever. I don't think it ever – it was in the press but we never saw any impact."[8] Wales, who himself is a supporter of Israel, insists on neutrality when editing articles related to Israel and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.[8] At a speech at Tel Aviv University when accepting his Dan David Prize in May 2015, Wales insisted to avoid conflicts of interest is to provide as many facts as possible while maintaining neutrality, aiming to overwhelm any chance of bias and imbuing political ideology. Wales also stated that editors have to present what all sides have said and ultimately leave it to the reader to make their own judgments and have their own opinions regarding the conflict.[9] See also Israeli Civil Administration Israeli settlement Judea and Samaria Area Population statistics for Israeli West Bank settlements References ^ Summary of the Opinion Concerning Unauthorized Outposts, Talya Sason, Adv.] ^ Yesha Council chair Dayan condemns recent settler violence, Jerusalem Post 12 August 2009 ^ a b Benari, Elad (3 August 2010). "Zionist Internet Struggle to Hit Wikipedia". Israel National News. Retrieved 18 August 2010. ^ a b c Hasson, Nir (18 August 2010). "The right's latest weapon: 'Zionist editing' on Wikipedia". Haaretz. ^ a b Rachel Shabi, Jemima Kiss (18 August 2010). "Wikipedia editing courses launched by Zionist groups". Guardian. ^ a b "The battle for Wikipedia: Palestinians counter Israeli editing group". Ynetnews. 28 August 2010. ^ Readers Discuss Wikipedia Editing Course That Aims for ‘Balanced and Zionist’ Entries By ROBERT MACKEY August 23, 2010, 1:12 PM ^ a b Wikipedia founder: Israel-Palestine is heavily debated, but we're vigilant on neutrality, Haaretz ^ Sales, Ben (19 May 2015). "Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales likes Israel but stays neutral". The Times of Israel. Retrieved 25 August 2015. External links Official website v t e Judea and Samaria Area Cities Ariel Beitar Illit Ma'ale Adumim Modi'in Illit Regional committee Committee of the Jewish Community of Hebron Yesha Council Regional councils Gush Etzion Har Hevron Mateh Binyamin Megilot Dead Sea Shomron Southern Jordan Valley (Bik'at HaYarden) Local councils Alfei Menashe Beit Aryeh-Ofarim Beit El Efrat Elkana Giv'at Ze'ev Har Adar Immanuel Karnei Shomron Kedumim Kiryat Arba Ma'ale Efrayim Oranit See also Israeli occupation of the West Bank Enclave law Area C COGAT Israeli Civil Administration IDF Central Command Israeli settlement List Jewish locality Population statistics Seam Zone Jerusalem District Authority control GND: 5301196-X ISNI: 0000 0001 2196 8019 LCCN: no94033013 NLI: 000094424 VIAF: 160629131 WorldCat Identities: lccn-no94033013 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Yesha_Council&oldid=939106926" Categories: Judea and Samaria Area Israeli settlements Political organizations based in Israel Zionist organizations Hidden categories: Use dmy dates from April 2019 Wikipedia extended-confirmed-protected pages Articles slanted towards recent events from September 2010 Articles containing Hebrew-language text All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from September 2010 Articles needing POV-check from July 2017 Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with NLI identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages ?eština Deutsch Français ????? Nederlands Türkçe Edit links This page was last edited on 4 February 2020, at 11:18 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view
